op_id: 91
op_title: I am a 21 year-old who is rapidly becoming a hermit/recluse. I don't necessarily see anything "wrong" with it.

I'll keep it short.  That personal don't-care-what-they-think indifference is great; it'll keep you stable through interactions with obnoxious people and it will give you an admirable air of confidence in your personal and professional relationships.  

That said, don't take it too far.  The funny thing about relationships with people (and we're talking friends and contacts here, not just SOs) is that they're actually difficult to maintain.  You have to generally make some effort to set time aside, call folks you haven 't seen for a while, and set up activities.  Going bowling, going drinking, going shopping, whatever it is you do with people - it's not going to "do itself". 

What that means is that you're sort of copping out.  You're taking the easy, lazy route through your 20s by letting your relationships lapse because you simply don't need them right now.  You're doing the minimum amount of work to maintain the level of social interaction that you currently desire instead of maintaining contact with people....

And here's the important part.  You might not need a lot of people in your life right now, but some day, you *will*.  I'm not talking about just getting lonely.  The bigger your network is, the more opportunities for jobs, romance, and entertainment you have.  The more often you interact with people you consider friends, the better you get at being friendly.  If you let your network dwindle to two friends and they both decide to move, you're going to be a very lonely person on very short notice and you're not going to have the skills to do anything about it.  

Friendship skills are just like programming languages or knitting:  Don't use it for a few years and you won't remember the finer details.  Let those skills atrophy and some day you're going to find yourself alone, unemployed, and *really* wishing you had some people to call.  When you see people moving up in their career with opportunities banging on their doors, you're going to wonder why no one's offering you your next job.  

Keep up with people.  The older you get, the more you'll want people who knew you when you were younger.  Cutting ties by attrition is a terrible, terrible plan at this point in your life.  