op_id: 16
op_title: Unless an animal clearly doesn't enjoy what's happening, I believe bestiality should not be morally frowned upon. I've searched and found no good arguments, so CMV (read the first sentence before you downvote)

**Before you downvote, please be aware that I have searched this subreddit on the subject of bestiality before, and every single submission has been downvoted to oblivion, yet there are no good, logical, rational arguments that make a good attempt at changing somebody's view on the subject material (considering the thread may have 6 points, 18 upvotes and 12 downvotes, and its top comment may only have 3 points, with like 9 upvotes and 6 downvotes)**

I would like to address a couple of arguments though.

The issue of **"consent."** But I believe that animals are in a position to be able to respond back and clearly show whether they're uncomfortable when you're doing something, or not.

Animals are not bound by law (consciously anyways) to refrain from attacking you, getting frustrated, annoyed, or anything, if you were to take them out of their comfort zone. So I believe unless an animal's behavior implies "no," that it should be acceptable, and if somebody continues to have sex with an animal who implies "no," it will be obvious from signs of trauma stemming from the animal, and should be classified under animal abuse.

There's also an argument I heard, **"They don't have a conscious grasp of sex, so that means they can not consent, meaning it's not okay!"** I am of the belief that, as long as it is not harming the animal, whether an animal knows what you're doing or not is completely irrelevant.

I personally do not practice bestiality, nor do I want to, nor have I ever wanted to. But to me, it just doesn't seem like a bad thing.

I feel like bestiality is only frowned upon because society hates taboos, ESPECIALLY sexual taboos.

So please. Change my view. I'm not set-in-stone on this opinion. I just feel I have not been adequately given enough reasons to change it.