op_id: 43
op_title: I believe people should be given psychoactive drugs that increases their productivity, like stimulants (Adderall, etc). CMV

I think what you're forgetting here is the possibility of dependence. Some people with ADHD don't take these medications specifically because they've already developed coping mechanisms to help increase their productivity. If you start on these meds young, these mechanisms never develop. This means that if they go off meds, they lose all productivity.

Now a second thing to consider is this: due to the way that adderall and other stimulants interact with the brain, they create a dependency. As part of that dependency, the receptors in the the synapse get saturated, and are removed due to their redundancy. This essentially means that if you don't have ADHD and are on these drugs, you will get ADHD. 

So now assuming that we can supply the entire country with stimulants (which I imagine our current industry couldn't handle), once they become dependent, they essentially turn from super productive to regularly productive people, unless you increase the dosage. And if there is any sort of disruption in the supplytrain, like a natural disaster, or other problems, you suddenly have a nation of people who have severe ADHD, and have no idea how to deal with it because they haven't spent the past 30 years learning how to deal with it.

If you need an analogy think of coffee. Coffee has a stimulant that people use to be more productive, and a lot of people drink it everyday. But when someone doesn't get their morning cuppa, or misses a day, they can go into withdrawal, being cranky and tired, and most likely unproductive. 

You say that government regulation will help, but what do you propose? Already there is an underground market for these drugs. Do you propose limiting the amount one person can buy? Then there are proxy buyers willing to sell. There will always be a way around the system. 

Now compared with those side effects, do we really think that the trade off for a little more productivity is worth it? 