op_id: 107
op_title: I believe the criticism of Twilight is just thinly veiled misogynysm CMV

If that were true, we would expect similar levels of vitriol aimed at other media aimed at girls and women wouldn't we? And yet we don't see that level of criticism aimed at things like My Little Pony, which has a very vocal 'brony' community that watches it. And Legend of Korra, which stars a teenage girl and is set in a world that builds upon the one created in TLA, which was also filled with well written and developed female characters. Same with Orange is the New Black, which is almost entirely about women. 

If it was chiefly misogyny that was causing the hate for twilight, we would naturally assume that the misogyny fueling criticism of twilight would result in criticism of those other fictions. And it's because the examples I listed are all well written. Twilight is hated because it's poorly written and has had far too much success given how poorly written it is. 

The article you linked mentions movies that, in her opinion, are similarly bad with the target genders reversed like Cowboys and Aliens, but I don't think those are comparable. CnA for example, didn't do that well in theaters and was not the huge phenomenon that Twilight was, and while the premise was silly, the execution of the premise wasn't *that* bad. Meanwhile, Twilight started with a premise that could have worked, but it had terrible writing. 

It's not misogyny, it's that the more successful something is, the more intense the criticism of it will be if it's generally perceived to be stupid. Look at Cars and Car 2 by Pixar. Most people agree that they're some of Pixar's worst movies. (They're not terrible - they're just not as good) They get a disproportional amount of criticism though, because despite being some viewed as the worse in Pixar's selection, they are some of the most profitable, and people hate that. So they gets more criticism than they might deserve. Misogyny doesn't even factor in. 