op_id: 105
op_title: I think cyberbullying is BS, CMV

I don't know your age, but there is one thing that you may not have considered: Things aren't the same as they were when you were growing up. You say that we shouldn't be babying these kids who are victims of bullying. Did you feel that way when you were being picked on? Or did you wish someone would do something to stop it? What tools did you have to respond with? What tools do you think these kids should be given so that they won't be victimized? I mean, we have laws to protect adults from harassment... Why do you feel that children deserve anything less? 

As far as Cyberbullying: It is easy to run away from a bully in person (which is what you say you did). It's a lot harder to get away when those bullies can track you to your home. Can harass you at an time of day or night. Can torment you from anywhere on the planet, regardless of where you are. Bullying no longer stops when you leave school or the playground. I would bet that when you were being picked on, you at least knew that when school let out and you got home, you'd be safe for a few hours. That you'd have a weekend free of having to worry about bullies. You had something to look forward to. That isn't necessarily the case anymore. 

Another thing is that, from what I have seen, it is rare that the cases of cyberbullying that we hear about only involved one bully. Usually, it's one or two who recruit others to join in. The feeling of anonymity that the internet provides does mean that more people will say things that they never would in public where others can see. That isn't silly. It is a proven phenomenon and there is a name for it; [the Disinhibition Effect] (http://truecenterpublishing.com/psycyber/disinhibit.html). 

And saying that words on a screen hurt any less than words that are spoken. That they are any less real... well, that just isn't true.  

To conclude: Not that long ago, the internet wasn't as important as it is today. People didn't use it on a daily basis to connect with friends and family. It wasn't as important as a social tool. That isn't the case anymore. For the youth of today, the internet is just as important to their social life as having a home phone was when I was growing up (28 now). It is how we connect and stay in touch. So, while it is easy to say 'Hey, if you don't like what people are saying, don't listen. Don't log on. Don't look at those texts or IM's or Facebook Chat Messages...", doing so would mean isolating your self from your friends and family. It would mean cutting out a large portion of your social life as well. It isn't as easy as 'just walk(ing) away' anymore. 