op_id: 121
op_title: I think religious people are incapable of logical thought, CMV

They are using logic, but they take other things as axiomatic. "A fish doesn't understand the concept of water" might be analogous.

300 years ago it was taken for granted that witches cause disease, so when a couple of villagers came down with the same symptoms everyone took it for granted that they have to find the witch and burn her to solve the problem.

From their point of view, it was as logical as someone today concluding that they have a dead battery if their car won't turn over. Ah crap, time to find someone who can give me a jump.

When people accept religious concepts as deep and immutable facts it's just like growing up and taking oxygen for granted. Of course God exists, he made the Earth and everything on it, and he said he wasn't going to fuck around with the climate after the Great Flood. 2 + 2 = 4. It's _that_ logical to them. It's the [allegory of the cave](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegory_of_the_Cave).

Whereas modern science fills libraries, and it's not everyone's priority to read it all, even if they could.

The concept that I think matters is [processing fluency](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Processing_fluency): how easy it is to "think" in a particular model. If you understand Calculus thoroughly it can be easier to "think in calculus". Or think in statistics, or think in orbital mechanics (you have to slow down to get to your destination faster--woah, that's not intuitive!)

Or take the video game _Portal_ and one of it's catchprhases, "now you're _thinking_ in portals." Once you _get it_ you take off like a rocket, but until then you flail around because your brain just hasn't reconfigured itself yet. You aren't "thinking in physics" or "thinking in thermodynamics" yet and can't see how climate change can work.

It's not unreasonable, however, to resist an idea just because you can't "think in fluid dynamics" or something else that's relevant. How do they know it matters? How can they know what it's like if they don't think in that paradigm, yet? There are lots of ways to think about the world, and we all have a natural tendency to resist new models for good reason: they're wrong more often than they're right.

Could I think in the models that make some horrible social injustice seem right? I probably could. For shits and giggles I could imagine what it's like to think in a model where homosexuality is unnatural and harmful and understand why someone would be opposed to marriage equality. I can also think in a different model, where gay marriage is harmless. But if you're not already well versed in both, it can be as hard to "think in arbitrary sexuality" as it is to think in the unintuitive world of orbital mechanics, where going faster means you go slower.

Religious people think they are thinking logically, and the way to change them is to educate them gently, and without any hostility. We must find ways to let them explore physical models that aren't obvious, just like giving a child toys to play with in the bathtub so they begin to get a grip on basic fluid mechanics.

