op_id: 96
op_title: I believe a lot of people will never find "love", CMV

Before all, I'm talking about "common" people, not the ones with major mental disorders, etc. Just people that you'll find on the street that seems "normal". Also just to clarify I'm talking in the strict sense of a partner, as an spouse or lover. Heterosexual by the way. And friendship it's excluded from this view. That's another topic.


According to wolframalpha there are 2.177 billion "adult" males and 2.113 billion females. 
Of course demographics vary from country to country. But basically in every culture, there are people that can't find a partner due to psychological or physical problems. Or it may be that the peer group of "x" individual isn't large enough  or doesn't have so much contact with the opposite sex.  
There are so many factors but in the end it may reduce to a problem with the subject or with his/her environment..

Also, like you read above,  there's an unbalanced number. There are more females than males,, and a lot of people are turned off by competence.
Those are external factors, but is in human nature to look only for the best "genes" to perpetuate it's existence, so a lot of *ugly* people seem to struggle more than a *pretty* person to find a partner. Monogamy and all of that is another matter.

Also if we look for dating sites on the internet, it's just  more complex, because in my experience there are 10 males for 1 female on dating sites (aprox). And so women become more picky, and so more males find it difficult to get a partner.

So, despite humans being *social animals*, some of them are destined to be alone* for the rest of their existence. And this cycle will continue for the rest of time, or the duration of humanity.

*Alone in the sense of not having a close relationship with another human being.

Tl;DR; Some people are destined to be alone due to psychological, social or just chance factors, and thus will never find love, or a partner.

Edit 1: [take a look at R4R](http://reddit.com/r/r4r), for any given female, her post it's more likely to have 5 or more replies than a male one, which in average will have 1 or 2 replies, if he is lucky, of course that isn't a rule, because female more likely will send a private message than a public post, still it shows something.

Edit 2: [Now I understand the Weltschmerz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weltschmerz) :(

