op_id: 96
op_title: I believe a lot of people will never find "love", CMV

So...this is awkward. Because I'm not single. And for the past 8 years or so, I've been horrible at remaining single, despite several sacred oaths to stop dating. 

But I'm also short, poor, unemployed, a few rare shades of mentally ill, a few common types of physically ill and I'm certainly not making up for it in looks. Did I mention I'm terrified to the point of flight or fight or, if I can't escape, fetal position paralysis when anything even vaguely sexual happens? 

Because it's not the social handicap you'd imagine. At least, not with other introverts...or trolls with a fucked up sense of humor. 

...

So, yeah, my girlfriend is both of these. She likes it when other people are more afraid than her...

But nevermind that.

You're right, a lot of people will never find love.

For some, that's a happy ending. Bullet dodged.

As for those who do want to find love, well, most find their way there. What are they doing right? It's not like it's a big secret...

Stop approaching love like it's a fairy tale. If you're just looking for love, it generally means you're in love with love the way Wallstreet can't enough cocaine, or you're just desperate for someone to save you from drowning alone. Both are considered great warning signs in anyone over 17. 

Because there are a lot of people out there who are terrible for each other. The girl who is trying to survive a pornographic Night of the Living Dead reality is not going to respond well to the guy who confuses the dirty sense of humor she picked up along the way for an actual proposition. The guy who has been mocked for his old fashioned romantic ideals doesn't need to hear that he's creepy from the woman who was suffocated by old fashioned romantic ideals before she ever met the guy, nor does she need to hear his insults because she still goes to church. The woman who paid all the bills in the last relationship needs some stability and support, but people who read her profile think she's a shallow golddigger. One of them is a guy who pays child support to the woman who cheated on him and gave him a persistent cold sore. 

Former victims of abuse keep meeting up with new abusers. Etc, etc, the variety is endless.

You know how it goes. 

Without working with any specifics, we can't hope to change your mind. Any advice we give to those without love will be wrong for someone, somewhere...

Edit: But who wants to play it safe? Here's a few tips. Don't confuse them for anything in-depth. They're mostly here to break up some myths about how difficult all of this is. 

Appearance: learn the color wheel, and how it can compliment your skin tone and highlight your eyes. Trust me, it's witchcraft. 

Fitness: Work out enough to at least not be dead if you need to climb two flights of stairs or go for a walk together. Beyond that, it varies. Some women want a steel panther, some women want someone skinny, some women want a soft pillow. Some just skip down to the next category...

Intelligence: You know how to Google, right? You can speed read the results faster if you don't mentally read them out loud to yourself. Also, don't be afraid to ask questions. The more open ended, the better. (You may need to apologize in advance, depending on how much you should already know...)

Smile: when you mean it. Faking it? If it only lifts your lips, you're making everyone who can read your eyes very uncomfortable. 

Listening: Active listening, without judgement. If you're not good at it, you'd better be damn entertaining about it. If you can't manage either, throw a saving dice, and look for a girl who is just as bad. A lot of genuine love is finding someone who understands and forgives you for what you can't do. 

Memories: You'd be amazed what making weird in-jokes nobody else can understand can do for two people. Don't force it. Let it grow naturally.

Oh yeah, and let people know you're interested in them...but don't pressure them for an answer right away or corner them. Practice makes perfect.  

Location to start things off: Make friends who have friends. Get a hobby. Avoid anywhere where the men greatly outnumber the women. It's not like online dating sites and Reddit are the only places in the world.