op_id: 93
op_title: People who won't admit to their racism are the worst kind of racists. CMV

I think one of the worst and most insidious types of racists are people who deny that something they've said or done is racist or, worse still, complain about being forced to use "P.C." (or, as most us know it, "polite") language.  Not only are they showing an aggressive aversion to ever bettering themselves or acknowledging any unconscious racial prejudices and hatred they might have, they actually do more to normalize racist rhetoric and discrimination that people who freely admit to their racism or the "dog-whistle" crowd who don't complain about black people, just "Welfare queens" and "urban violence"  Everyone knows what that means and they aren't getting away with anything.  I mean the people who act like talking about racism is somehow more racist than whatever racist statement of theirs they're being asked to talk about.  They are the worst.  As in, actual worst, and perhaps the greatest threat to the integrity and cohesion of a multiethnic society imaginable.  I don't believe in criminalizing speech, but we need to accept as a society that that shit is over the line.

This type of racism tends to be *very* popular on Reddit, so I really look forward to some exciting responses! (while keeping it civil, of course)  In particular, I'd like to hear anyone who's objected when they were told something they said or did was racist explain why it wasn't/at least wasn't egregious or was in good fun.

ETA: People who talk about living in a "post-racial" society are basically part of this group, if that helps clarify what I'm talking about.  The best example I can think of is someone saying that a Chinese food delivery "take too wrong" or that a particular neighborhood or building that's not actually run down is "ghetto" because it's mostly black and then getting angry when they're told that's a super racist thing to do.

EDIT 2: Some very angry person provided me with a way better definition, so I'm going to add that:
&gt;Your "best example" isn't an example at all, making fun of somebody's accent has absolutely nothing to do with their race. It's the same if you make up Chinese names, it's got fuck all to do with their race and isn't even remotely racist. But let me guess, me pointing out a basic fact that you do not understand, makes me a racist that doesn't admit it, right?

Yeah, bro, it does!  Talking about people like that here.