op_id: 44
op_title: I do not believe in the existence of a "soul" CMV

[Qualia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qualia).

Qualia are the highlights of conscious experience. The *experience* of the color red. The *pain* of a cut. The *sound* of a crash.

I know that I *experience* these things. When I pinch my arm, my nervous system carries a signal to my brain that notifies it of the stimulus. But there is something additional: an actual experience of the pain. This experience is a quale.

The philosopher David Chalmers has a thought-experiment that really highlights this, involving what he calls [philosophical zombies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophical_zombie). In short, imagine a world just like our own, down to every last quark and gluon. When you pinch me, I say "Ow!". I can sit and watch a sunset, and remark that the sky is purple. But unlike our world, in this new world I never actually *experience* anything. This seems totally possible. After all, reacting to a pinch only requires the transmission of the stimulus to the brain, not a conscious experience.

So his argument is this: Let's suppose that the physical description of our world accounts for everything. This view is called *physicalism*, and though you didn't explicitly endorse it in your post, it is quite likely similar to the opinion you seem to hold. [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophical_zombie#Zombie_arguments) has a more thorough form of the argument, if you are interested.

So now we have two worlds that are physically identical, down to every last detail. But in one world, we have conscious experience, and in the other we don't. So it cannot possibly be that the physical description of the world accounts for everything in it: for one, it doesn't account for consciousness. Thus physicalism must be false.

This argument is logically valid, but some people take issue with some of the premises. For one, it is possible that a complete physical description of the world *would* account for consciousness, therefore it would be logically impossible for an exact physical clone of our universe to be missing conscious experience.

Much has been written about this specific argument, both in favor and in opposition. I'd like to return, though, to qualia.

Any worldview has to account for qualia. For entirely physical worldviews, this means that qualia ultimately are physical. There are some famous arguments, however, that try and show that this cannot be so. One such is the [knowledge argument](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_argument). Here is one form by Frank Jackson:

&gt; Mary is a brilliant scientist who is, for whatever reason, forced to investigate the world from a black and white room via a black and white television monitor. She specializes in the neurophysiology of vision and acquires, let us suppose, all the physical information there is to obtain about what goes on when we see ripe tomatoes, or the sky, and use terms like ‘red’, ‘blue’, and so on. She discovers, for example, just which wavelength combinations from the sky stimulate the retina, and exactly how this produces via the central nervous system the contraction of the vocal cords and expulsion of air from the lungs that results in the uttering of the sentence ‘The sky is blue’. [...] What will happen when Mary is released from her black and white room or is given a color television monitor? Will she learn anything or not?

One might say that she *does* learn something: what the actual experience of the color blue is. Therefore, since she had a complete physical knowledge of the color blue, but still learned something about blue: she learned something non-physical.

So, back to souls. Does any of this offer any support for the classicial notion of a soul, where after one dies he goes to heaven to spend eternity with Grandma and Grandpa, swimming in rivers of milk and honey? Of course not. It doesn't even say much about personal identity. These arguments only support the notion that our conscious experience cannot be fully explained by a physicalist worldview. I've quoted Schrodinger in another reply, because he was such a colorful guy, and I'll conclude with another quote of his:

&gt; The sensation of color cannot be accounted for by the physicist's objective picture of light-waves. Could the physiologist account for it, if he had fuller knowledge than he has of the processes in the retina and the nervous processes set up by them in the optical nerve bundles and in the brain? I do not think so.

Personally, as a philosophical lay-person, I'm swayed by these arguments. I have read many counters to them, but none of them have particularly resonated with me. On the other hand, I can imagine someone coming to the opposite conclusion: that all of the talk about qualia and philsophical zombies amounts to sweeping what we don't quite understand under a rug and calling it magic. I hope, however, that I've shown that there is something of a debate to be had about consciousness. This debate has very little to say about what we would normally call a "soul", but if we water-down the definition to basically mean "something apart from our physical brain", then one might be able to make a case.




