op_id: 75
op_title: I don't think the Beatles were so great. CMV

The main problem with this reasoning is that you're looking at the Beatles from our current perspective as opposed to looking at what they did from the perspective of someone who was around at the time. Other posters have discussed the technical advancements they ushered in, so instead I will try to explain the cultural impact they've had.  

When the Beatles entered the scene (I wasn't around at the time, so this is taken from anecdotal evidence), much of the popular music was akin to what the Beatles released on Please Please Me, their first release. It was practically unheard of (at the time) for artists to progress the way that the Beatles did. Off the top of my head, I cannot think of a single artist that progressed as quick and as vast as they did in as little time, while still holding onto what made their music uniquely theirs. 

There are very few artists that can reach a point where they can create both [I Wanna Hold Your Hand](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a_csEEI4PFE) and [Tomorrow Never Knows](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=spjcPS4ekOA)(two very different songs, I admit, and perhaps not perfectly exemplary of their body of work at large) in a way that is...natural. They progressed as opposed to mutated. 

Along with that comes the fact that bands like Radiohead would not have existed at the time (that is to say, experimental bands that still achieved large mainstream appeal) and would arguably never had achieved mainstream success or even existed were it not for the Beatles. They are widely considered trailblazers in this regard exactly because they did go there and by doing so paved the way for other bands to do what they did, only more so. 

Finally, there has never been a band that has had as big a cultural impact before and since. People would maybe argue Elvis in America, but I would personally put the Beatles above that. The simple fact that female fans would have genuine [manic episodes](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VLvTq6FdOj4) just from seeing the Beatles (something that did not happen before) says a lot. I also did some research on the cultural impact the Beatles had on Liverpool and London, and it is remarkable. 

//

Along with that comes that, if you look purely at the quality of music that the Beatles produced you should be able to see that they have produced an enormous amount of arguably high quality music in a short time. And the other bands know it too. The Who stated they were highly influenced by the Beatles (and the Beatles by them in return, just listen to [Helter Skelter](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ueBUFUWSXHs)), and I would argue that you can definitely hear some Beatles influences in both Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd, albeit more subtle. They were way before their time in a way that no other band has been able to emulate, be it in musical quality, diversity of material, evolution, quality and volume of music produced in a short timespan, and mass appeal. There has simply not been a band that has been able to deliver this complete package in the way that the Beatles did. 