op_id: 6
op_title: I don't think "safe spaces" are a good idea. CMV

Safe spaces aren't really created to hide people from other view points, after all, almost all of the people in these groups have to adjust to and communicate with people who have opinions other than their own in their everyday lives. There are a couple reasons why safe spaces can be very beneficial. Here are a few that I can think of off the top of my head.

1)Many of the people in these groups actually *have* either experience physical or emotional abuse as well as loss of jobs, relationships with family/friends, and social status, or been threatened with it. For instance, my university has a confidential program (safe space) for people who think they might be LGBT but are questioning or can't come out for various often times very serious reasons. The people who go to that group are already in an emotionally and socially vulnerable position in which speaking up in front of people who oppose them could be not only absolutely traumatizing in itself, but also potentially life devastating.

On this same train of thought, many groups have such a history of being oppressed or abused by another group that this fear becomes omnipresent even when an individual has not been *openly and directly* threatened or abused. For instance, [this study](http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/3150-women-speak-less.html) shows that women are 75% less likely to speak up in a space when outnumbered by men. This means that bringing men, especially men who might vehemently disagree with what they are saying, into a safe space means for all intents and purposes shutting the women in the group up.

2)The purpose of most safe spaces is not form a space that people spend all of their time lingering in and closing off from the world, but rather to find a group of other people who share common experiences who can give you advice, comfort, and reassurance. By the way, it is not only safe spaces that do this, but many different types of groups. It would be inappropriate to waltz into a church during services and proclaim why their religion is wrong, or walking into a sports bar during the Superbowl trying to tell people that sports are stupid and a waste of time. When people come together over a common interest/experience they are looking to find enjoyment and camaraderie, not to argue. Just because people participate in these type of group events doesn't mean that the church goer or sports fan wouldn't be open to other viewpoints at another time; it simply means that in this one event or space they are not looking to battle their views out with another. Likewise, people who participate in safe spaces are still open to discussion in other circumstances, but want the occasional comfort of and support of a group who understands them. After all, most members of safe space groups live in societies which are not as receptive/encouraging of their views every day, so it isn't as though they are hiding from the world entirely.

3) Most of the rules and guidelines that define safe spaces are just to get people who typically feel shut down in normal conversations/debates for their views/sexuality/race/gender/whatever are able to express their viewpoint. Many people that I know are comfortable in their beliefs about something, but are too shy, insecure, fearful of being ostracized to be able to argue them to others, but they still need some outlet for their thoughts/feelings. Whilst I think you and I both likely best communicate and explore our ideas through debate, some people can't because they feel attacked through this method of discourse, especially people who are members of groups who have been/are being systematically dismissed in society. Participating in a safe space gives those people the cathartic opportunity to say how they think/feel and hopefully even gain enough confidence through the encouragement of the group to express their views in the more public way you desire. In this way, **safe spaces can actually be beneficial to the creation of meaningful dialog**.

I hope that helps a little :)