op_id: 18
op_title: I believe that antidepressants mess you up and addict you in the long term because without them you are back to the "reality" goggles. CMV

If you had an illness that was not depression would you feel bad about taking medication to cure it? Or, in some cases, to just be able to live without having to many problems? Do you see a diabetic who has to depend on insulin as a drug addict?

Depression is actually a pretty complex illness. You might have the same symptoms as another person and it still could be for different reasons.

If you have time, read this:

http://www.health.harvard.edu/newsweek/what-causes-depression.htm

so, with all those different things going on in depression there are also different ways of helping people who have depression. There does not seem to be a one size fits all treatment. Different drugs try in different ways to right things that might have gone wrong in the brain.

When somebody starts taking antidepressants they do not magically feel better. It often takes a few weeks for anything to set in at all. That is different to the sort of drugs you get high on, as they work pretty fast.

Sometimes a person does not feel better on an antidepressant at all and sometimes they feel worse. Sometimes they feel better but the  side effects are not worth it. - Alcohol always makes you drunk in a relatively predictable way, right (even though some people act different when drunk than others)? Antidepressants are not so predictable.

If an antidepressant works though, that is pretty great. Mood starts to improve slowly and you start to realize things you did not even take into account before anymore. Things that are just as valid an real as what you noticed while being depressed. Yes, your friends care for you and yes, you are worth it. The person sounding all frustrated when you talk with them about how you are feeling? - They just want to help but have no idea how, they are not 'just annoyed". - Sure, there might be no life after death, but what stops you from having one while you ARE alive?

No, how you are feeling right now is not invalid and I know how frustrating it is when people just say to "look on the bright side of life". You see, when you are not depressed you can be sad and then you can stop being sad. Sometimes you can even make yourself stop being sad. Your friends are trying to help you, they are seeing good things going on along with the bad things and they don't know that to you everything is just somewhat worthless, unimportant, empty. You say you are depressed and they hear you are sad. So, they try to tell you that you do not need to be sad, that things are all right. (If you are like me back when I had my depression you know that there is no real big reason to be depressed and being reminded of that makes things even worse, 'cause it does not stop how you are feeling and nobody seems to realize that...)

Now, is depression making you see the world more real than the "normal" view on life? 

You are talking about "Depressive Realism" and it is actually a thing people study. Findings are not fully conclusive and different people argue different things based on different studies and meta studies.

It's another interesting read:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Depressive_realism

One more thing: You remember how I said non depressed people can be sad, but also stop being sad? - When you are on working antidepressants you will also still be able to feel sad. You will not suddenly always be happy. You will be able to feel horrible if something bad happens. - But you also will be able to feel great when things happen that are great. Able to feel alive.

Oh, and not all people stay on antidepressants. For many it is just a tool, a medication to help them get better, till there brain has fixed itself and can work right on it's own. I am one of those people. 

---

Sorry if this was a bit to rambly, I fear I might have tried to address to many points at once.

