op_id: 114
op_title: Homophobes deserve the same respect as anyone else CMV

I don't necessarily disagree with you, as I believe everyone should be respected, but here is the argument I think makes the most sense with regards to why it may be ok (in the minds of many) to respect homophobes less than other people: Homophobes are not respectful of everyone. Since homophobes are not respectful of everyone simply for being human, many people consider them fair game to disrespect. Esseintially they forfeit their right to be respected by disrespecting others. I think this argument is a little hypocritical, at least how I phrased it, but it isn't entirely irrational. I am an American, and we tend to value freedom, but you quite simply can't have every freedom out there. You cannot allow all people to be free to have jobs and live where they like while also allowing perfect freedom to discriminate on the part of employers and landlords. Therefore the United States has been (slowly) siding more and more with limiting the freedoms that limit other freedoms. This is not the exact same thing but it is similar. Essentially the thought goes that we should respect the beliefs of all others, but when there is a conflict we will respect those who disrespect others less than those who don't.

The part that doesn't convince me is that it assumes that respect is some limited thing that cannot be given out to everyone (as opposed to freedom which clearly can't), whereas I believe that it is possible to respect people who have radically different beliefs than I do. That being said, I do not respect all people equally. I have a fair amount of respect for everyone, but there are definitely some people who I respect more than others and some I hold in slightly lower regard. This is often a factor of a nubmer of things about a person. I value traits like kindness, loyalty, leadership, a good work ethic, creativity, intelligence, and open-mindedness, to name a few. When someone is pretty bad at some of these things I tend to respect them a little less than someone who displays them quite well. Homophobes are terribly closed-minded. I honestly find it impossible to respect a homophobe as much as another person who is equally respectable in every other way. It is definitely a knock against them. I try my best not to belittle them and to treat them with human decency (hold the door open, smile and be polite, be friendly, etc.), but only because I do that to everyone. I do not respect them enough to take most of their opinions seriously, at least on the topic of society and laws.

With regards to the "witch-hunt" I am actually not very bothered by it. I strongly believe that gay people should have equal rights, and a large and growing number of people agree with me. There are still many people who don't but it is becoming increasingly more difficult for them to be open about it, which I see as a good thing. The message being sent is that it is not ok to be homophobic. Maybe it is not being sent in the nicest of ways as it tells homophobes that their beliefs are not ok (which is always hard to hear and tends to make people defensive as you noted) but it is an important message to send and I would rather it happen poorly than not at all.