op_id: 7
op_title: I dislike gender identity as a concept. CMV.

Okay, so here's my understanding of the issue. Everybody is born either male or female, and this is your sex, but whether you are a man or a woman is a an issue of identity, and is independent of your sex. 

That is, one can be born a male, but later on in her life, realize that she identifies with women and women traits, and thus decide to identify as a woman. She would request to be referred to by feminine pronouns, start wearing girl clothes, practice changing her voice until it sounded feminine, may or may not get genital/chest surgery and/or hormones, and then, she would be a girl, and do girl things.

Here is where I have the problem. What are "Girl traits"? What are "Girl things"? 

I have always considered myself to be an advocate of equality and non-discrimination. I dislike stereotypes of all kind and think that everyone should be treated equally regardless of factors outside of their control such as race, orientation, etc., and as such, **I don't consider any trait to be distinctly masculine or distinctly feminine**. And I think the concept of gender identity promotes the idea that certain traits are.

When did we decide what traits are? What is it that makes a male decide that she is a girl? Or a boy for that matter? What, if you're...sensitive or something, then you're a girl? I'm a pretty sensitive guy! And I can tell you, there's ALL SORTS of things that I do that other people would consider "Girly". But the thing is, I think people are full of bullshit. I mean, I don't really *care*. If people were to start referring to me by feminine pronouns, I would be pretty indifferent and probably wouldn't correct them. 

It's just, I don't get it. To me, assigning certain traits to a gender, and saying that identifying with these traits means identifying with that gender seems...backwards. It seems to promote gender stereotypes and roles. Like, if you're a male but you identify as a girl and decide to wear dresses...well, wearing dresses doesn't really help you identify as a girl, does it? All you need to be a girl is to identify as a girl. All wearing a dress is is conforming to how society says a girl should look. That's not about how you perceive yourself, it's about how you want society to perceive *you*.

Like, when you tell me you're a girl...well, great, I just learned nothing significant about you at all. That doesn't give me room to presume anything about you, it gives me no information. So why is it such an important identity to so many people? 