op_id: 7
op_title: I dislike gender identity as a concept. CMV.

You're generally right—it is stereotyping to assume that someone is of a certain gender based on what activities they enjoy and it isn't accurate. However, that isn't really how it works.

I'm a trans guy and I like a lot of different things: a lot are 'masculine dudebro' things and a lot aren't. In the course of a single day I can spend hours playing video games, reading or watching shitty TV shows ranging from Pawn Stars to Hannah Montana. I don't regard any of these things as 'female' parts of me. I am inherently male. There is not other way to describe it; it is just who I am. I know that I am a man the same way that I know that I am attracted to women or anything else intuitive. It's absolutely integral to my identity. 

If I were to put on a dress it wouldn't tap into some female part of me because of some ridiculous notion of gender roles, I would just be a really uncomfortable man in a dress. On to your point about how we are perceived in society: you have never known societal discomfort until you have lived a day with Gender Dysphoria. Hearing 'ma'am' or 'miss' all day every day is the kind of thing that can just make you want to lay down and die as a transgender person. 

It may seem shallow and unnecessary to pander to what society expects of us but there are two reasons for it: one is that stereotypes are absolutely based in fact—they are really just a variation on what psychologists call 'schemas' or really quick bullet points about something that your brain can pull out at the mention of a word. Basically all those little pictures we get in our mind when someone says 'little old lady' or 'Scotsman'. The reason these exist is that they are based on truth and are your brain's way of saving a bit of time because memorising each individual aspect of each individual little old lady or Scotsman you meet is a daunting task. 

These are only detrimental if we grow to rely on them too much and don't allow them to adapt or expect everyone to fit accurately into our schema which will accurately describe only a handful of people. So basically gender roles are a schema: girls do this, boys do that. My little notecards in my noggin say so—and they are absolutely accurate as a *generalisation* which is why you will find that many trans people do fit these stereotypes of their true gender well. Some things fit people and others don't but as a whole we don't do a half bad job of distinguishing girls and boys (assuming we don't argue that these ideas are set in stone). Equally, there are people on the absolute opposite end of the spectrum: outliers who don't fit into any of their gender's roles. This doesn't make their dysphoria and need to transition any less valid. 

If you can't tell from my previous points, I strongly disagree with the war on gender roles: used correctly there is absolutely nothing wrong with them (they should, of course, never be forced on someone against their will). They exist for a reason, that reason being that they are fairly prevalent and our brain has decided 'Aha, I should file that!' However, that doesn't mean that there isn't a huge spectrum in between. It's just a basic starting point for what our brain associates with men and women.

The second reason is that, for our emotional well-being, us trans folks absolutely *need* to be gendered correctly. It is pivotal to our survival. As such, there is a huge need to 'pass' within the trans community: the easiest way to do this is to dress and act ways that are typical of the gender they want to be seen as. It is a sad fact that people make brash judgments based on what we wear and how we present ourselves; however, getting the average person who has never thought about gender in their life to consider that gender is really on the inside and not the outside is going to be a long and hard battle. As such, it is just easier to conform (and realistically it is not viable for a trans man wearing make up and showing their breasts to be seen as male to the general population—whether it should be or not is controversial even within the trans community).

So basically, in my opinion, it is not that a person who fits female stereotypes *must* be a woman or that a person who fits male stereotypes *must* be a man: it is that these people are women/men and as such align with some (but generally not all) of the tropes of their gender because they are rooted, to some extent, in truth.

I hope this is somewhat useful to you—I'm running on no sleep so if there's anything convoluted you want me to clarify or you want me to answer other, more specific questions, then go right ahead!

Edit: Typo fixes.