op_id: 85
op_title: I feel like Superman is the most Mary Sueish hero, and I do not understand his popularity. CMV.

You forgot something.

Superman is vulnerable to magic.

The basic first level fire spell you tucked away in Final Fantasy whatever and forgot about?

It can kill him. 

Whenever Superman goes up against the forces of Hell in a one on one fight, he's probably going to lose. 

Inside Hell? He was once written as having a complete emotional meltdown, followed by paralysis. There was nothing he could do to save anyone. 

Which is kind of important to him. You see, Superman asks the question - what does it mean to be good? What if you had the power to do anything anyone has ever wished to do...could you make the world a better place? 

And we allow him to do it, because we really wish we could.

Only, he can't save the world, can he?  All his powers, and his arch enemy is a guy who just knows how to work the system.

Lex Luthor, has often been portrayed as just a businessman who loathes Superman because he's a God in human form. And so we have the story of an outsider who desperately wants to be our ideals vs. an insider who will use our worst instincts to tear a good man down. This is the stuff of opera and myth. 

Did I mention there's a love story?

Lois, is a feminist. And insane. She's gloriously, wonderfully, batshit insane. How important is the truth to you? How many lives would you lose, to pursue it? What if there wasn't a Superman? How dead would she be? 

And she's up against....Clark Kent! Awkward farm boy, possibly autistic. Or a Buster Keaton short. It's impossible for anyone to be that pathetic, unless they're desperate to work on their stand up comedy when they're not being God and worshipped. [Being powerless as Clark Kent is all that keeps Superman from losing his empathy.](http://www.scribd.com/doc/159419259/Study-Power-Changes-How-the-Brain-Responds-to-Others)

But how powerless is he, in the information age where nerds/geeks have more social currency than ever before?

That's for a better writer to answer. He badly needs updating, but he's far from lacking in potential, even now...

But anyways, there's a love triangle made by two very weird people trying to figure out how to deal with each other at their worst, all the while flirting up a storm at their best. 

Which makes it much closer to the truth than most superhero romances....