op_id: 85
op_title: I feel like Superman is the most Mary Sueish hero, and I do not understand his popularity. CMV.

Let me explain it this way:

Perhaps you're thinking of Superheroes too narrowly. Perhaps you're thinking that most Superhero stories go along the lines of this: Bad guy appears, Superhero beats bad guy.

That's just about the most boring storyline structure ever. And that's the problem with your analysis: you think that a Superhero is defined by how he fights the bad guy.

Let me present you an alternative view of why Superman is so appealing: He is our fantasy of justice. He's our fantasy answering the question: What if "good" were endowed with Superpowers?

Given all the evil and terrible things in the world we live in, *what if* there were some really good guy that represents all our greatest hopes for humanity, with Superpowers that can put *everything* right.

Grant Morrison put it in a much better way than I ever could:
&gt;So we chose not to deconstruct the superhero but to take him at face value, as a fiction that was trying to tell us something wonderful about ourselves. Somewhere, in our darkest night, we made up the story of a man who will never let us down [...]

&gt;Because it all derived from Superman. I mean, I love all the characters, but Superman is just this perfect human pop-culture distillation of a really basic idea. He's a good guy. He loves us. He will not stop in defending us. How beautiful is that? He's like a sci-fi Jesus. He'll never let you down. And only in fiction can that guy actually exist, because real guys will always let you down one way or another. We actually made up an idea that beautiful. That's just cool to me. We made a little paper universe where all of the above is true.

We don't want to see Superman struggle (physically). We want to see him win. We want to see him save people, smile, and fly off to solve some other problem. We want to see him beat the crap out of evil aliens, and effortlessly round up the most dangerous of criminals. We want to see good triumph over evil.

Superman is basically Jesus. He's God in the sense of omnipotence and in the sense of the greatest good, having just enough humanity to connect and make sense to us. That last bit is really important: the fact that deep down, he's just good ol' Clark Kent, raised on the farm with the best of parents, wants to help everyone, and *just happens to have superpowers* reminds us that we have that goodness within us. Humanity is also capable of that level of good and charity.

So, now that we've established that Superman is no ordinary Superhero, let's answer your question: What makes an interesting Superman story.

The answer is: not one where he can beat the bad guy physically.

I'll give you an example.
In Red Son: Superman is raised in Soviet Russia instead of America, and basically tries to altruistically take over the world and spread communism. [spoiler]And he easily does so. He restrains himself as he hopes that people will realize how much better Communism is (as ruled by an altrustic Superman), but over time he decides he just needs to take the reins, until Lex forces him to realize that he's basically playing god and humanity no longer has any agency. He ultimately realizes that he must let humanity choose its own way.[/spoiler]

Alternatively, "Luthor" is a pretty good Superman story too. Except it barely even stars Superman saving the day. It revolves around Luthor's genuine fear that Superman, in being this godlike figure on Earth, completely cripples mankind's ability to progress because they see this *alien*, faster, stronger, more capable than they'll *ever* be, and there's nothing left for them to do. Luthor and Superman represent two different ideals of humanity. Superman vs. the Ubermensch (Lex). Whereas Luthor represents the peak capability of humanity (Lex is at peak human intelligence and presumably physical training, at the forefront of business, technology and politics, and a complete master of his own fate), Superman represents the greatest good in humanity (accentuated by the fact that he has godly powers but uses them altruistically). 

Now, what's a bad Superman story? I don't know, the Death of Superman or something. Oh look, it's Superman, fighting this monster that's stronger than Superman. Greaaaat storyline guys.

If you want to read a story about a guy with gadgets or some cool power fighting cool villains, look elsewhere, at Batman or Green Lantern of Iron Man or something. Superman is much more endearing and enduring because he's now about fights and monsters, he's about the grand vision and greatest hopes of humanity. In his best stories, you walk away believing that some great moral principle has been won (or lost, depending on the story).

tl;dr: Superman isn't your generic Superhero, who just needs to fight a bad guy and save the day. He's better thought of as a concept. And his best comics don't involve Superhero fighting Supervillain, they involve the ideas behind Superman and the ideas behind his villain clashing.