op_id: 62
op_title: There are no defensible arguments for the existence of a god. CMV

I'm not going to address your top points as I am an atheist who agrees. I think your second paragraph could use a wider perspective. You need to understand that there are plenty of intelligent individuals who haven't thought much about religion that aren't well versed in a variety of fields. This can be used to suggest particular arguments arguing for certain God models.

&gt;Because of this I have trouble believing people who were not theistic from childhood, but decided later in life that the existence of god makes logical sense, and I'd rather not suddenly feel that someone is a bit dumb because I don't know of any sensible argument that they could have run across to convince them.

There are many arguments that *appear* strong. One example that I can think of is the [ontological argument](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ontological_argument) (Platinga's and Anselm's are the most popular in my experience). If someone were questioning their religious beliefs, coming from an atheistic starting point, and they aren't well versed in logic then the ontological argument seems quite strong.

What of those that define God as "A timeless being that is the cause of the universe". Then all of a sudden we have first cause arguments and teleological arguments for further support. Again, if you aren't well versed in cosmology and haven't seen any formal objections to the premises these arguments can appear to very strong and support this definition of God.

Arguments for design in regards to Abiogenesis are also strong at a glance. Very few individuals understand the hypotheses currently put forward or the experiments conducted. There are plenty of smart individuals who believe that there was non-life and then *bam* a single celled organism that we would recognize formed. This confusion can be used to question the probability and then suggest that there must be a guiding hand of some sort.

I do agree with you when it really comes down to it that there aren't any defensible arguments when they are really analysed, but there are some that intelligent individuals can possibly accept when they aren't well versed on the failing points.