op_id: 81
op_title: I think that diamond engagement rings are a sham. CMV

To be fair, I never thought I wanted a diamond engagement ring. When my then-girlfriend was considered proposing, she asked me what I wanted and what I cared about. The proposal itself had been expected, but I told her at the time I didn't know what I wanted and would need some time.

She hated the idea of me not having something 'concrete', so we spent some time shopping around and finally found a Swarovski ring with the features that I liked. It cost us around 150USD, and I wear it everyday. It's much brighter than the diamond jewelry that I own, which were handmedowns from my mother. The problem is, even though it's brighter, it is not intended for everyday wear the same way a traditional diamond ring is. 

Engagement and wedding rings, by their very nature, are crafted to be durable and beautiful at the same time. My mother's wedding set was worn every day for 35 years before she passed away, and the ring itself was never dented or dinged. My ring, in comparison, shows obvious wear: the coating has chipped on the bottom from where it scratches against various surfaces, the small jewels on the band have fallen out (they've been replaced now, thankfully), and I have to polish it more often to retain the sparkle. 

While the concept of a diamond ring as a necessary gift for an engagement was certainly engineered by DeBeers as a marketing campaign, there's nothing *wrong* with wanting a ring.

For me, a diamond ring is a tasteful, tangible way to display my love for my partner (and theirs for me). While I personally wouldn't opt for a larger than life multi-carat ring, I don't think there's anything wrong with someone whose taste leads them in that direction.

When I do buy a ring, I know I'll buy a diamond ring. I won't be thrilled about the cost, but I also wasn't thrilled about buying a new car, or the cost to move across the country. But I know that every day that I look at it, I'll be reminded of the love and sacrifice my SO and I shared, and I won't regret it.