op_id: 74
op_title: I believe 9/11 was an inside job. CMV

Around my senior year of high school (2009-ish) I became quite interested in public events and foreign relations and wanted to become more knowledgeable about how the United States compared to the other nations without the star-spangled bias you get from public school and fox news. Not too long after that I was exposed to 9/11: In Plane Site as well as others, and the copious amounts of conspiracy videos of YouTube. As someone of above average intelligence and a skeptic by nature I have never taken conspiracy theories too seriously, as many rely on sparse circumstantial evidence but for whatever reason this feels different.

My main reasons for suspecting foul play in order of importance:

1. BUILDING 7!?!?
2. The buildings all collapsed uniformly at near free fall speed implying a coordinated severance of support beams along with pictures showing 45 degree angled cuts on support beams not consistent with melting the columns.
3. Multiple Eye-witness accounts of explosion coming from the basement and bottom floor, along with the janitor that was in basements burns.
4. Traces of nano-thermite in the dust collected from the scene.

Im honestly not sure what to make of all this evidence, but something just strikes me as unsettling, and I see a lot of skeptics to whom I look up to (Micheal Shermer, Bill Maher to a lesser degree, etc.) dismissing the notion and Im not sure what Im overlooking that they arent. Im swearing into the Navy on Wednesday and this is the my biggest cause of apprehension about joining the war machine so hopefully one or more of you fine people can CMV!









disclaimer: First Post so I apologize in advance if I am in violation of any rules or protocol

EDIT: That didn't take long. Thanks to those who responded, now I'll rejoin the ranks of the lurkers.

EDIT #2: So a SHIT TON of new comments over night, and sorry to say I cant address them individually, not that yall are craving my opinion, but I read them all and its good to note that other seemingly intelligent people shared my concerns and skepticism and I really enjoyed the healthy discourse below. Both sides have produced compelling arguments but after reassessing probability figures and relinquishing my right to observe evidence and draw my own conclusions due to my egregious lack of knowledge on the subject, the reality is that it would be insurmountably difficult to orchestrate something of this magnitude. I still think its a little fishy, but my common sense tells me thats probably due to authorities lack of a clear picture, not direct involvement and subsequent cover up. Thanks again for playing, hope to see you all again. 

EDIT #3: here is a [link](http://www.reddit.com/r/conspiracy/comments/1korgs/the_official_megalist_of_911_suspicious/) to a post in /r/conspiracy detailing the arguments that cast doubt on the official story in much better detail than I had previously. Another redditor brought that to my attention and thought you guys may have a go at it.