op_id: 87
op_title: I don't see any reason why single use restrooms should be gender oriented. CMV.

Point 1.  I think that one of the biggest reasons they have bathroom segregation is because of the potential social awkwardness between genders.  

Imagine this guys...You're completely destroying this bathroom.  Maybe you had some re-fried beans for lunch, or maybe that sushi from last night just isn't sitting right, regardless, you're totally annihilating this toilet.  Suddenly, you hear a knock at the door.  "Someone's in here!" you murmur.  You wrap things up as quickly as you can.  You get yourself cleaned up and open the door, only to see the most drop-dead gorgeous woman you've ever laid eyes on, and she actually kinda smiles at you.  Then the mustard gas cloud you had trapped in the unisex restroom wafts out and hits her.  You watch as that smile turns to confusion, then to horror, and even tears.

By the way, that situation is even more uncomfortable the other way around for women.  We're more uncomfortable about our shit smell than anybody.  I know some of you guys are reading this thinking, "I don't give a fuck, bask in my ambiance, bitch!" but for some people, it really is an uncomfortable situation.

Also, point 2, I do think that unisex bathrooms increases some likelihood of rape/molestation.  In segregated bathrooms, a man is somewhat deterred from going into the women's room for fear of being seen entering(not that this stops it from happening but it is at least a deterrent).  However, a man going into a unisex bathroom to prey on a woman or child is much less noticeable.

Point 3 is just the differences in genders.  Do you guys really want to see tampon dispensers on the walls and bloody period pads in the trashcans?  Women don't care to see urinals or condom dispensers, or whatever else you guys have in there.

Point 4.  Not that this is always a bad thing, but unisex bathrooms greatly increase the chance of hetero sex happening in the bathroom.  A man can enter and a female shortly behind, and no one bats an eye.  This may be great for the amorous couple, but what about the rest of us?  What about the line that's forming because these two love birds are having an all night fuck fest?  What about the poor soul who is next to enter to find bodily fluids covering the walls?  What about the janitor who has to scrub that shit at the end of the night?

Finally, I personally don't like sharing a bathroom with anyone, but if I must, I'd rather it be a woman.  We may be disgusting creatures, but at least I know what to expect, and the judgement will be limited.  