op_id: 72
op_title: I believe that Marriage as a lifetime commitment is an outdated expectation. CMV

&gt; Most marriages end in divorce anyway.

This is like the 5th time I've heard this in the past two days, and I don't know why people keep repeating it without checking their sources. This is not true. 

There was one study done over the course of one year that found there was one divorce for every two marriages. There were no follow up studies to confirm it the findings. It fails to take into account that people who divorce once are more likely to do so again in subsequent marriages. Based on this alone, the actual number is estimated to be 30 percent of people go through at least one divorce in their lifetime, but again that hasn't been empirically confirmed. 

And it also said nothing about the demographics of who is getting married or divorced. The couple getting married in vegas at 21 isn't going to have the same odds as the college graduate couple getting married at 28. There are a lot of factors to consider. 

It's not true that most marraiges end in divorce, and more importantly, most people who take their time in a relationship and treat it as the serious matter it is will not get divorced. 

&gt; In my own family, my great grand parents divorced, so did my grandparents and so did my parents. 

My parents are divorced, so were the parents of my two best friends growing up, and my wife's parents are not divorced but they don't' get along. And none of this matters, it's all anecdotal. When you look at the larger trends, most people don't get divorced. 

&gt; This is an important question because I want to raise a kid someday. I believe the economic and financial stability of a two parent household is probably best for kids, but I have no interest in monogamy, nor could I ever pretend to believe I will want to be with the same person for my entire life.

This is where [opportunity cost](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opportunity_cost) comes in. Either you can raise kids in a stable, two parent household and spend ~18 years with the same person, or you can give up monogamy and be with lots of people. Neither of these is a bad option, but it's going to be very difficult to have both at the same time, and so you have to decide which is more important to you, and you may have to make sacrifices. You may find your priorities change as you get older.