op_id: 20
op_title: News is bad for you. CMV

News is TERRIBLE for the general public, for the reasons you cited, and also because of herd mentality. You only need to look at reddit sometimes to see how people tend to flock to some news, disregard others, and then validate their views based on each other's pats on the back.

However, you said "News is bad for you", with the "you" being interchangeable with anyone. the problem is that News are GREAT for some people : analytic-minded people, scientists... and historians.

Let's pretend for 5 seconds that news don't exist. We the people live in blissful ignorance, and our leaders still get informed of everything through their secret service and intelligence bureaus. For the sake of this discussion, let's imagine that no leaks have ever happened.

Every major scientific discovery has gone unnoticed by 99% of the population. With no media outlet to turn to, scientists have to resort to peddling to show off their wares. When they get noticed by someone powerful, their invention gets stolen - it's much easier to apss it off as your own than it is to pay royalties. And without big news agencies to bring the public eye to that sort of thing, who's going to argue ?

Let's imagine that everything up to WWII went along like it did in the real world. Nobody knows about the concentraiton camps. Jewish people get killed off on a larger scale, the culprits don't really get hunted down, and no-one really cares : we're all blissfully ignorant.
Let's pop forward thousands of years : no textbook ever mentions WWII, or if they do, they give a propagandist view of it, and America is glorified. why ? because with the media outlet, no-one has any experience t share to the world, no-one has a story that sticks, and veterans die with their memories. also, why would the american government publish a true account of the thing when they could make it seem like they were heroes ? any government would do the same.

Another situation : missing kid. No media outlets : no amber alert, etc.

So all in all, I think news are useful. (not feeling particularly motivated for a great closing sentence)