op_id: 103
op_title: I don't believe that the military should have different fitness standards for men and women. CMV

I believe that this rubs people's hackles because the brain easily confuses fitness standards with military might. The problem is this is not the case.  Fitness standards are a basic notion of overall fitness. It perhaps at one point was something similar to the idea of firefighters, that any one firefighter, if called upon, could pull any other firefighter out of a burning building. It stands to reason then, that you would want to make the basic standards for a firefighter to be able to lift and carry 250 pounds (the most likely weight a firefighter and his gear would weight.) But in todays ever changing military, it is simply not necessary, nor is it wise to operate under the idea that any soldier at any moment could and would need to take the place of another. Psychological operations, networking, drones, smart-war tactics require much more variety in ability. This level of functional differentiation requires different skillsets. In the same way that we acknowledge that the Air Force requires more technical knowhow, we see different standards for physical fitness in the Air Force as we see in the Marines, where brute physical skill is more often necessary.

 We also know that adding the diversity of ideas is one of the things that makes this country great, and our military is no exception. Similar to the idea that female police officers radically changed notions of interrogation with detectives and brought a fresh, nuanced perspective to the craft of detective work.

So, for the same reason that you shouldn't be alarmed that a long distance runner would be a terrible strongman, so should you not be concerned about the fitness standards being different for men and women. The only thing that is important is that women remain physically fit within their ability level, so that their mind will be kept sharp (the point of fitness) and their body ready to react with purpose. Our military will always have plenty of strong men to do what strong men are called upon for, and having a diversity of skillsets and ideas that women will bring will only enhance our military might, not weaken it. 