op_id: 49
op_title: I think the US reaction to Snowden's leaks is far more unsettling than the information those leaks contained. CMV

It is a pretty big deal that they can investigate U.S. citizens without a warrant.  Everyone knew that the NSA had surveillance, what's unsettling is the realistic possibility of insufficient oversight of the program's usage, and the classification of the FISA court rulings which may have indicated the unconstitutionality of NSA projects.

Specifically with regards to your points though:

1.  Through one of the leaked papers we did not only receive information that the NSA was gathering private data, but also received information on which companies had agreed to be used for surveillance.  While few terrorists would have used gmail and such before to discuss plans of attack, you can guarantee that with this leak gone public these potential sources of information will dry up.  I personally doubt such channels of communication would yield much useful information, and don't think this is a valid reason to keep the program secret, but cannot deny that this leak did make the NSA's job of stopping terrorism a little harder.

2. Snowden has not released all of the data he left the NSA with, and word has it he has distributed encrypted copies of the data as "insurance" should he disappear.  The language used to describe Snowden is disconcerting, but it is a legitimate concern that with him being in China/Russia that he may be forced to divulge potentially-damaging secrets to foreign powers especially with the implications of having an "insurance" data file.

The reaction of my country to the leaks is very unsettling yes, in addition to the points you make, Congress has handled the investigation of the NSA quite poorly with terrible attendance at the hearing, mixed messages regarding the actions of the NSA, and not divulging any additional concrete information to justify their actions.  However Snowden's revelations of a system which compromises all major tech companies, shares the data with various European nations, and can allow for warrant-less investigation of U.S. citizens is pretty damn unsettling. 