op_id: 5
op_title: I don't believe men can be raped by women. CMV.

&gt; Does it hurt men physically to be raped (no bondage/drugs/alcohol involved)? I sound like one of those legitimate rape Republicans here, but if a man is being raped by a woman, why can't he just... enjoy it?

I hate to sound like a jerk but um...do you actually know what rape is?

Rape is any time that one person, through force or coercion, engages in sexual activity with someone that did not specifically of their own free will and of sound mind consent. Pain has nothing to do with it. Pleasure has nothing to do with it. It's not unheard of for women to experience pleasure or even orgasm from rape; why would it be any different for men? Bear in mind regardless of your mental state, sex is going to agitate certain nerves and cause certain physical reactions. Your personal feelings can affect these by causing the production of countering hormones (or prevent the production of helpful ones), but not stop those sensations entirely.

&gt; I know it's a terrible view and again I want to apologise, but does it physically hurt men to be raped by women (as in PIV sex)? 

Again, rape has little or nothing to do with physical damage. Also, keep in mind not all rape of men by women would have to be vaginal sex. Oral (either giving or receiving) or anal rape (pegging) are also possible. so there is potential for physical damage even if that mattered.

&gt; I think the main part of my view comes from that I've always seen men portrayed as sex maniacs, always thinking about sex, always wanting it, etc. I mean I have male friends who I've spoke to about this who believe men can't be raped too (they deemed it "ridiculous").

Welcome to the segment I like to call: Our Society is a Bunch of Fucktards.

First off, not all guys are always obsessed with sex. Do we enjoy it? Of course. Do we want more? Who doesn't want more of an enjoyable thing? That's human nature! Women are that way too, but thanks to what I'm about to discuss they are more circumspect about it.

So, on to why society sucks: Men are told to be a man, they have to be virile. And that means having as much sex as you can. on the other side, women are told they have to be demure, and ladylike, and not sleep with as many people as possible. Thanks to those two stereotypes, men feel like they *have* to think about sex constantly, and women act like they aren't allowed to think about it! Thankfully those stereotypes are fading, but it will take time before they are gone for good.

&gt; So I guess this also contributed to my view that guys always want sex and therefore can't be raped.

I have a huge appetite for food. I can pretty much always eat. That doesn't mean i want you randomly cramming my face full of a sandwich I don't like and didn't ask for, does it? Even assuming the whole "All men always want sex all the time (horribly untrue), it doesn't mean I want sex with that specific person.

And to an extent yes, people that share your views ARE a part of the problem. Thanks to views like that (no offense), men who are raped are far less likely than a woman to report it (and let me assure you the vast majority of female rapes go unreported, so that says something).