op_id: 5
op_title: I don't believe men can be raped by women. CMV.

In the sidebar it says "for people who have an opinion on something but accept that they may be wrong or want help changing their mind". Well, I definitely know I'm wrong and that's why I'm here. This post is going to sound terrible and I really want to apologise if I'm offending anyone. I'm trying to change my view here and if you have anything to say, please say it.

Part of me knows men can be raped by women. Because you know, it's fairly obvious. If men don't give their consent and women have sex with them anyway = rape. Simple as that. 

But for the most part I'm just really confused. I'm having trouble coming to terms with how it's possible for women to rape men. Does it hurt men physically to be raped (no bondage/drugs/alcohol involved)? I sound like one of those legitimate rape Republicans here, but if a man is being raped by a woman, why can't he just... enjoy it? I know it's a terrible view and again I want to apologise, but does it physically hurt men to be raped by women (as in PIV sex)? Although I'm aware that it would be emotionally damaging... Back to my whole "enjoy it" point, if you flip it around, I'm MORE than aware that it would be absurd to say to women victims that they could've just enjoyed it. 

I think the main part of my view comes from that I've always seen men portrayed as sex maniacs, always thinking about sex, always wanting it, etc. I mean I have male friends who I've spoke to about this who believe men can't be raped too (they deemed it "ridiculous"). I also remember seeing a tweet on one of those true fact accounts on Twitter. The tweet said something along the lines of a man was raped at knife point by five women (his wives? Can't really remember but it doesn't matter right now). A few of the comments were guys going "what a way to go!" and "sounds good" and just general positive comments. So I guess this also contributed to my view that guys always want sex and therefore can't be raped.

I was considering posting this to /r/mensrights but figured I'd come here first.

I know people who think like I do are part of the problem. So CMV please. My opinion is making me uncomfortable. 

EDIT: Just wanted to quickly say thank you for all of the responses, it has really enlightened me :) thank you!