op_id: 5
op_title: I don't believe men can be raped by women. CMV.

[From two days ago.](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/1a23kl/cmv_i_dont_believe_man_are_able_to_be_raped_by/)

I'm not calling it a repost, but you might find it a useful resource.

Firstly, I want to know what you mean when you say you don't believe men can be raped by women, but that you *know* they can. I don't understand what it is you're trying to convey. Do you just want to know how it's possible?

&gt;Does it hurt men physically to be raped (no bondage/drugs/alcohol involved)?

Rape, as I'm sure you know, comes in many different forms. I don't want to actually detail methods that would cause pain, but I'm sure you believe that some sex can hurt if you're not careful. What do you think would happen if the person having sex with you doesn't care about you at all? They probably wouldn't give a shit how rough they are, or how abusive they are. So the answer is yes, unless you're talking about coercion, which is another can of worms.

&gt;why can't he just... enjoy it? [...] I think the main part of my view comes from that I've always seen men portrayed as sex maniacs, always thinking about sex, always wanting it, etc.

Okay, I think I see the fundamental disconnect here.

There's a social stigma that men just want sex, and if they fail to get it, they're not manly. It happens in every "dude man bro spring breeeeak" movie that comes out where at least one of the jokes is, some guy gets rejected by a girl. Wah-wah-waaaah. This also objectifies the girl, but we're talking about the part of this stigma that affects males.

The point is, you may have the impression that men don't have as many inhibitions when it comes to sex as women do. (If you don't, I apologize for presuming, and please correct me in that case.) However, this isn't true. I've had enough sexual experience to know that sex can feel wonderful, dangerous, exciting, disgusting, and *wrong* in the bad way, depending on the incident.

If someone were to coerce me into sex, or physically restrain and rape me, I would be traumatized. There's no question in my mind. To have control of such a basic part of yourself taken away with no purpose but for someone else's pleasure would probably break me. But you're not talking about emotional trauma.

Rape usually isn't about just getting sex. It's about a desire to control another person. So usually female-on-male rape isn't predicated on PIV sex, but rather it might involve sodomy with a phallic object, physical abuse, and restraint, if you're looking for only the physical.

&gt;A few of the comments were guys going "what a way to go!" and "sounds good" and just general positive comments. So I guess this also contributed to my view that guys always want sex and therefore can't be raped.

This is actually a trend that bothers the living shit out of me, but I'll stay civil.

I'm sure you're familiar with Reddit's gross negligence for the worth of women when it comes to jokes and one-off hypothetical scenarios. It's like one of Reddit's main features, that in every thread featuring a woman, one of the comment threads will be about how the girl is hot, or a bitch, or whatever. But I'm sure if I were to take this to mean "girls must be hot or bitches," you'd want to slap me.

Remember how I said there's a social stigma that guys are only in it for sex? Some people measure the worth of a man by how appealing he is to women. That's why Magic Mike exists, for instance. So that means a lot of guys are insecure about their sexuality. Hence, the jokes. It's a mechanism for dealing with hearing of a man being raped. "Why, if a woman wants to have sex with me, that means I'm a better man for her than other men! How can being raped by a woman be so horrible? Doesn't that just mean she wants me really bad?" They just can't understand what it's like because *they don't have to deal with the fear of that happening*. Sex is a goal for the stereotypical male, not a vice. 

With women, it's different. Sex is forbidden, an exotic gift only given to the one that woman has chosen. To take it unduly is a horrible thing because it's so important to her. Notice that this last point is actually completely correct -- it's just not considered as important for men, because the stereotypical man has sex with multiple people over his life, and it's not that big a deal. Basically in basic human society (and going back to before recorded history, in fact) the girl sticks with one guy, but guys get around. We live in a modern society now, where that idea does us no good and perpetuates a culture where sexism and that sex-based concept of worth can only ever be harmful.

Sorry for the ramble, but I hope I've addressed some of the underlying conceptions you might have that cause you to be so conflicted. Let me know if I'm way off base.