op_id: 70
op_title: CMV: I believe that the fuel economy benefits offered by hybrid cars is a myth due to a basic understanding of physics.

It is my view that the fuel efficiency of hybrid cars is an absolute myth and that this view can be supported by a very basic understanding of physics. Note that I exclude plug-in cars from this statement.

The manufacturers of hybrid cars make huge claims of offering fantastic gas milage due to their hybrid technology. Their argument is that as the car has a second electric engine, it can run around without using any gas what-so-ever at low speed and for short distances. They state that the gas engine will only kick in when the extra power is needed. This combination of gas and electric leads to the most efficient possible method to build a vehicle. I would counter this view with the following three key points:

1 - In order to function, a hybrid car must have a series of very heavy batteries, a very heavy electric motor and a series of other heavy electric components (eg systems to recover lost energy during breaking).

2 - Therefore, whenever a hybrid car is driven anywhere at any speed, on gas or electric power, it is carrying the weight of all of these components.

3 - A basic understanding of physics tells us that it is physically impossible to get more energy out of something than was put into it. 

When we combine these three points, I reach the conclusion that the fuel efficiency offered by a hybrid is a myth. I reach the conclusion that the benefits of driving around on electric power is totally offset by the extra fuel used when on gas to carry around the batteries, motor, etc which would otherwise not be there.

It is my contention that if you were to take a vehicle such as a Prius, and completely remove all of the electrical components, it would achieve a better level of fuel efficiency  over a year of driving than an identical hybrid. It is my contention that hybrid cars are developed to sell as a marketing pitch, and that in actual fact a straight up efficient gas car is a much more logical and efficient way to achieve good levels of economy.

