op_id: 58
op_title: I believe that the band Nickelback gets far too much unwarranted hate. CMV.

I don't hate nickleback, as I think it's sort of silly to hate something that you can pretty easily ignore if you choose to.  I *hate* genocide, gang violence, school shootings, and neo-nazis.  I *don't care for* Nickleback.

That said, I think Nickelback represents a change in the music industry, and while they were neither solely responsible or even the worst example, they were one of the first, most successful, and (perhaps most importantly) longest-living bands to come out of the late 90s / early 2000s mainstream music industry.

Up until and somewhat through the 90s, there was a balance between artistic integrity and selling records.  Obviously some people only cared about art, and some people only cared about money, but there was a balance struck between both of these things that was kept for most of the 'big acts' you heard on the radio.  In many cases bands would put out one or two records under strict label control with "hitmaker" producers, and then once they proved themselves, they would be free to explore their artistic whims and put out really great records.  But even the early, "reigned in" records were often times still produced with a balance in mind.  Look at Nirvana:  Their major label debut, "Nevermind", was terribly overproduced by the standards at the time, but it still had a bit of artistic legitimacy to it.  And then they put out "Incesticide" which didn't win them any friends at their label, followed by "In Utero", which was a really good balance of art and business sense.

At some point, though, the major labels stopped caring about maintaining a balance and started only caring about efficiency in moving units.  The "rock music" they were pushing was replaced with manufactured pop music produced over blandly written, contrived guitars designed to sound harder than traditionally pop but still be universally accessible.  That's where Nickelback came from.  That's where Creed came from.  That's where basically every "new" band to emerge onto mainstream rock radio after the year 1996 or so came from.

But like I said before, Nickelback was one of the first, most successful, and longest lived of the "new school" of mainstream radio rock.  Because of this, their name has sort of become synonymous with all of these manufactured pop bands masquerading as rock and designed solely to move records as of late.

I think it's inappropriate to hate them or make personal remarks about them, I mean, they're just some dudes doing a job, but I can understand why people would have a strong distaste for their band as an artistic entity.
