op_id: 106
op_title: I believe that I am worthless. CMV.

I don't know who you are and what you have or haven't done in life, and therefore I cannot honestly tell you what your individual worth as a person may or may not be. I'm just some guy on the internet. But what I can tell you is this:

"Worthy" and "significant" are human terms for human concepts that only exist relative to human perception. If you feel you are inherently "not worthy" due to the vast scale and general nature of the universe, etc., you have misunderstood the very nature of "worthiness". To seek confirmation of some innately human value from the universe itself is inherently irrational, and inherently bound to be fruitless. It's about as rational as asking your kitchen table or an orange to assert your worth as a person. Your kitchen table is not a thinking being and therefore cannot hold an opinion concerning your question, an orange is not a thinking being and therefore cannot hold an opinion concerning your question, and the universe is not a thinking being and therefore cannot hold an opinion concerning your question.

It's really as simple as that. You are looking for an absolute answer to a relative question, but things don't work that way. All your "worthiness" as a human being will have to be determined by human beings because "worthiness" is something that only exists in the perception of human beings. The very concept of "worthiness" is only one of the many mental tools evolution has equipped us with in order to be able to function as social beings within the context of a society (the ability to do so being, of course, a prerequisite for human survival for much of our history as a species).

I know it would be more convenient and more comfortable if there was some way to absolutely determine one's worth, but there isn't. You are therefore left with the task of determining - and more importantly, creating! - your own worth, which might of course be a little cumbersome, but that is simply the nature of human existence. Such is life. Keep your head up, keep a stiff upper lip and carry on, and enjoy the pleasures of life when they come to you. They generally do. Just keep the following in mind:

"Exists only relative to the perception of individual human beings" is clearly and obviously not the same thing as "does not exist in any way whatsoever". And "doesn't matter in some absolute, unmovable and universal way" is clearly and obviously not the same thing as "does not matter in any way at all".

Bet you can't prove me wrong on that.