op_id: 111
op_title: I believe in equal-opportunity meritocracy, but I also think winners use their power to cheat and lock in advantages. The solution is to reset opportunity by seizing and redistributing wealth every 50 years so the winners have to keep proving themselves. CMV

This could work only if you could keep the reset a secret. If it *isn't* a secret you've massively, catastrophically, distorted economic incentives. Lets list a few examples:

1. At some point, a few years or less before the reset all the most productive members of society *stop working*. Why? Because they've saved enough to live off of the next few years and there is zero reason for them to work for money they'll just have to give up.

2. At the same time the demands for a certain class of goods go through the roof: any thing that is consumed in the short term but has long term dividends. *Everyone* wants to go to school, get training, or go on vacation. *No one* wants to teach classes, do training or serve people on vacation. This is basically a mega great-depression.

3. Have an idea for a new technology that could change the world? Is it something you could reasonably expect to profit from for more than the next decade and that no one is likely to beat you to? Then keep it a secret until just after the reset. No major technological innovations for the years leading up to the reset will nicely contribute to the biggest recession the world has even seen. 

4. Farmer? In normal times you've been rotating crops to keep from over farming. Logger? Are you planting new trees to replace what you're growing down? Have you been keeping that stream clear for your grandchildren to enjoy? Screw it: the land is about to be someone else's: time to make a quick buck by using it as a chemical waste dump. 

5. Want a loan or capital of any kind to start a business? I can't imagine why since you'll lose everything you make. But even if you did: you won't be able to get it. No one is going to loan you money they won't get back. No one is going to stay invested in your company when they can spend the dough on caviar and hookers. 

Now, add one more thing: this proposal is *less* politically feasible than making all hiring and admissions blind. I don't think getting rid of inheritance is a good idea (similar screwing with incentives): but it is certainly easier than your plan. And doing things like that doesn't create these perverse incentives.