op_id: 104
op_title: I think that Obama hasn't made any good decisions since he took office. CMV

You may find this site to be interesting:

http://whatthefuckhasobamadonesofar.com/

Also, from 17 year old to 17 year old, do not get your information on politics from your parents or TV stations. As great a guy as my dad is, he spouts complete rubbish when talking about politics and in particular, Obama. Since I've been following politics pretty closely for a while now, I've usually heard about the news he is talking about and usually from his end there's some sort of important misconstrued detail that makes Obama look evil. 

The worst of it all, my younger brothers get the impression that Obama is bad because they hear my dad complain about him. And the same shit goes on in my school with other kids. Last year, we had a school vote just to see what way our school would swing in the election (it was Republican, by the way) and when talking to many of my friends, they often said "I'm voting for Romney... because my parents don't like Obama." When I say why I like Obama, people often don't put up much argument. I feel like people just sort of support what their family wants them to support. It's like they agree with one side but vote for the other because they don't know what they're doing.

I hear people say how abortion is so bad because it's "killing a person," when they don't realize at all how simplified and nonsensical it is to use that as your argument. Or hear people who aren't even that religious make fun of gays because they know they should. Or hear people shout about how teachers should be paid as much as pro athletes without realizing how economics work in the slightest. Or hear people shout how all guns need to be banned because guns kill people, blah blah. Us highschool kids are great at making BS pseudo-logical arguments all the time. If your highschool friends agree with you, I doubt it hardly means much.

Now I'm not saying Obama is some sort of god who is not allowed to be critiqued, he has most certainly fucked up (in particular, this second term), and I'm not saying Romney is some sort of shitbag that only politically uneducated support. I'm just saying that, especially in highschool, you tend to start listening to and understanding what your parents are saying about politics. And when you hear it from your parents, people whom you tend to trust greatly, you might just assume that it's true rather than looking into it and forming your own opinion... because they're your parents and they must know what's right, right?

I'm also not saying you're one of those impressionable people, maybe you're just more republican, I don't know. But I know for a fact highschool kids tend to be notorious for taking sides in politics and not knowing why - other than the fact that their parents or someone said so.

Sorry, kinda got off on a tangent. Sometimes I just need to make it clear because I often don't trust people my age with holding a well-thought-out political conversation. Anyways, yeah, look at that site and it lists a bunch of good shit Obama has done. He's no saint, but he sure as hell ain't as bad as you might perceive.