op_id: 14
op_title: I do not plan on voting. CMV

For context, I am a seventeen-year-old living in the United States. When I turn 18, I plan to register as an independent; when election days come around, I intend to go to the polling location and submit a blank ballot. I intend to remain somewhat politically involved aside from voting, at least to the extent of knowing what the issues are and where I stand on them.

Here are my reasons for not voting:

Voting, at least in the United States encourages an us-versus-them mentality, creating a vicious atmosphere. As a quick example of this, /r/politics was focused almost entirely on tearing Mitt Romney and the Republicans down last election season, building them up as the most evil people on the face of the planet.

The voter is asked to accept a political party's complete list of economic and social ideals. You cannot separate individual issues at all--you have a few packages to choose from, no matter how much you may disagree with parts of each. 

By the very nature of this, voters are encouraged to agree with one side on all or almost all things. Because a person chooses to support a side, views presented by that side will tend to appear "better" than views presented by the other side, regardless of the views themselves. People who join and actively support one political party or another submit to a certain degree of mob mentality.

The United States has many corrupt government officials and something of a culture of dissatisfaction with elected officials. I see this, in large part, as a result of voting. Voting selects for traits such as charisma, popular appeal, and so forth, rather than competency in governing. In addition, the process encourages--almost necessitates--lying.

Even once officials have jumped through the hoops required for their elections, they will often make decisions based on what certain groups of their constituents want. You see this in actions such as the Republicans calling for a repeal of Obamacare (perhaps not the best example, but the first decent one I thought of): absurd proposals with no chance of succeeding, created purely to show that the politicians uphold the views of those who voted for them.

Beyond all this, voting itself depends on the people, and that is perhaps my biggest problem with it. Everybody is encouraged to vote. If a person doesn't vote (and makes that clear), they are generally looked down upon--often considered unworthy of even holding political opinions. Becoming politically informed is given much lower priority. As I see it, this results in people voting when they really shouldn't be--voting not because they care, not because they have honestly and thoroughly researched and come to the conclusion that Candidate A is superior to Candidate B, but because it's expected. This gives the informed votes much less value--every thoughtful vote is drowned out by a dozen thoughtless ones.

Building on that, voting gives people a sense of having "done their political duty." It is an entirely symbolic gesture--individual votes, of course, do not carry any weight at all--but it frees them from doing any more politically. If you're a voter, you've Done Your Part to support the democracy!

I could go on, but this post is getting too long as it is. The reasons above should provide a good start, at least. In short, I prefer the symbolic gesture of not voting to the symbolic gesture of voting because I see a lot of systemic problems caused by the act and concept of voting.

I am fairly firm in this viewpoint. I am posting in /r/changemyview because it is an abnormal viewpoint and I have held it for long enough that I suspect I am not giving fair consideration to points that support voting. I do not expect my view to change completely, but I would appreciate a different perspective on things.