op_id: 92
op_title: I do not believe that Psychology is a valid science. CMV

I'm of the opinion that Psychology is not a valid science because it cannot observe or test empirical data.

I believe that all forms of Psychology that study the external effects of the internal operation of the *mind* are very literally only guesses based on precedent guessing, cannot be verified absolutely, and are most likely opinions formed of the observer's textbook prejudices. I also believe that observations made based on mechanical and chemical differences in the *brain* fall under the valid studies of Neuroscience, and are often used wrongly to justify Psychology.

I feel that the field does not advance as sciences do, and that while Clinical, Experimental, and Academic Psychology are the most egregious offenders, all observations are at the complete mercy of the subject's ability or desire to respond truthfully. Since it may be relevant to the discussion, I am also extremely skeptical of Psychiatry, as it too is somewhat at the mercy of truth.

Full disclosure: This is a mod-approved throwaway post for the following reason directly from the original approval message; as such, I'm happy to answer any personal questions relevant to my view:

&gt;The reason I believe this to be the best course of action is that there are people close to me with various Psychology degrees, one of whom has very recently earned their bachelors degree... and I'd like to be able to see things as they do; I already know full well by now that I can't have that discussion with any them without leaving them feeling completely insulted by me. As my primary account is not a secret among them, I'd rather ask with some degree of anonymity.

**View Update:** I do now understand that my view shouldn't be that Psychology is a non-science, but I do still hold the view that Behavioral Psychology and Psychotherapy, specifically client-therapist interactions, are rubbish. Despite that, I do strongly feel that my horizons have been expanded greatly as pertaining to Psychology in general.