op_id: 92
op_title: I do not believe that Psychology is a valid science. CMV

&gt;Psychology is not a valid science because it cannot observe or test empirical data.

I disagree. Good psychology only observes and tests empirical data. I think what you may have a problem with are the theorized mechanisms behind those observations and data.

Every scientific discipline that studies things about which little is known must rely on some degree of theoretical speculation. But those speculations are always based on the best data available and are amenable to change as new data is obtained. There are plenty of phenomena in physics, astronomy, biology, chemistry, etc that have not been directly observed but have been inferred because the rest of the evidence we have collected points very strongly toward a certain conclusion. Psychology is no different. The object of study of psychology might be complex in a unique way but by no means is it impossible to study.

By repeatedly observing human behavior under very specific and constrained conditions, psychologists can narrow down the potential factors underlying a given behavior, often with great precision. Granted, at the end of the day, we call these theoretical psychological constructs things like motivation, self-esteem, depression, personality, and so on and it seems like you might have a problem with that. There is no "thing" in the human body or brain that corresponds directly to one's self-esteem and I can see how some people might be skeptical of trusting such a concept. But in a laboratory, and often in real life, experimenters can manipulate this thing we call self-esteem and predict the results with surprising accuracy based on the body of knowledge that psychological scientists have collected.

You can take issue with the identification of psychological constructs and theoretical speculation in the field of psychology, many psychologists certainly do as well. But I really don't think you can say that psychology is not a valid science because it can't observe or test empirical data. Good psychologists do nothing but empirical observation. As with all science, it's the interpretation of the results or empirical observation that gets tricky. And especially so when studying something as complex as human cognition and behavior.