op_id: 53
op_title: I believe *more* socialism is needed for the U.S. to prosper CMV

Firstly, as a side note: Obama upholds democratic-socialist platforms. While he is not by definition a socialist, he advocates for socialist variations of domestic policy, to varying extents. 

The real problem with your argument, while both reasonable and rational, comes in the last paragraph: &gt;Not paying profit margins for these things would give people more liquid assets to spend elsewhere, which in turn would benefit privately owned companies in the long run, just in other places, and ultimately stimulate the economy into a boom.

This just isn't the case. Here's why. 

Economically, socialism doesn't allow for capital-based transactions, and directly opposes supply and demand based thinking. This means two key things: profits don't exist, and instead of valuing things via the market, products are valued by the amount of production it took to make them. Capital no longer exists. Ultimately, while companies would no longer enjoy profit margins, neither would the workers: revenue would be sufficient enough (theoretically, assuming Marx was wrong and that his Exploitation of the Worker and/or Alienation of the Worker from Products won't occur in a capital-based system) to continue operation and ensure workers receive the minimum sustenance they need to survive. Therefore, there *wouldn't* be liquid assets anywhere (Proving Marx wrong, see above). In fact, if there were, it would be because companies were proving Marx's predictions true and exploiting the workers.

Additionally, on a less theoretical note, our budget is stretched historically thin. Federal debt is rising fast (http://www.federalbudget.com/) and many of the social programs will become more expensive as the baby boomers become older. 

As these programs' pricetags are set to only increase (http://www.aging.senate.gov/crs/ss4.pdf), simultaneously increasing other programs will only, if under current budgeting, increase the mess further. Simply, there is no money left to create. Even so, if we raised the payroll taxes that fund Social Security and the funds that give into Medicare/Medicaid, the primary sufferers would be employers. This would lessen small business's ability to operate, and allow only big businesses to reign supreme, so to speak. 

Essentially, to respond to your argument: it is neither theoretically nor practically possible for us to adapt more Marxist/Socialist policies without hurting, to some extent, either workers or small business owners. It would only cause big business to profit more, and give them greater incentive (&amp; arguably, ability) to become (more) fraudulent and corrupt.