op_id: 53
op_title: I believe *more* socialism is needed for the U.S. to prosper CMV

Ok, I'm a high school debate student and the topic you brought up is one that is often debated. I'm a liberal, more than most, but economically I don't think we need more socialism in general if out goal is economic prosperity. I agree with your points on heath care and basic utilitys (internet i hope) but I really do disagree with you on higher education. 

Before I go into the meat of my argument I want to establish what parts or forms of socialism are effective and what parts are ineffective.
The two sides of the scale are capitalism and communism(duh), and socialism is somewhere in the middle. I argue that socialism does not have anything unique about it, to be effective is must use some capitalist policies and some communist policies. If you try and split the difference you end up getting neither. The examples in the US are Medicare and Medicaid, Section 8, and more recently social security. These are all government run programs that use a mix of Public and private funding and today are a drain on the gov. and increasingly less effective. You can have a socialist society where one sector, say heath care is under total government control(to provide it to everyone) or under all private control(to increase tech and keep prices low) than both will achieve there goals. By extension this means that when you a a partially subsided or half government controlled sector then you end up with a mess, high prices low tech innovation. (this referrers to government capital not regulation.)

Higher education should not be standardized or payed for by the government. 

1. Today higher education is overemphasized and is not catered to those who would benefit from having it.   
2. Only 30% ish of the people have the mental capacity to benefit for college ( Dorrel, 11). This means that you would have to have the US government either supporting or carrying out tests that say, "You're in, and You're not" or they would just let everyone in. The former is unconstitutional and the latter is not realistic or cost effective.
3. You have have no mix or government money without impacts that outweigh the benefits. Government money in a private sector will drive prices up, so while the Gov. intentions were good the have actually created a bubble that will burst very soon.
4. Government funding is ok but it would need to be done through a subsidy contingent upon low prices not loans.
5. Government run colleges will halt scientific research as we know it. Now, despite student loans, there is stem cell, cancer, biochemical and other kinds of research going on. If the government took over the schools any tech advancement could be grabbed, halted, weaponized kept away from the public. This possibility halts advancement in general and would hurt humanity as a whole.
6. Finally, the fiscal argument. Colleges cost alot, and they won't make money in the form you are suggesting. Simply put, we don't have the money and that is a reality everyone has to face regardless of philosophy. 

Any retorts , kritits or comment i please leave them

