op_id: 52
op_title: I belive AA is only a temporary solution for alcholics. Not a healthy long term solution to treat addiction. CMV

As a recovering alcoholic, I hope I can shed some light on the subject. 

It's not uncommon to run into what they call "dry drunks" in the meetings. People who have essentially replaced one addiction with another, albeit a much healthier one (being "addicted" to being in AA vs. being addicted to the drink). One of the main tenets of any 12-step program is the need for character change. I find the program, at times, to rely heavily on semantics, and I don't live my life by all their rules. I have, however, found a lot of help and wisdom and insight from the people in the rooms. There was an episode of Elementary where he says something like (I'm paraphrasing), "I don't mistake the ethos of the program for a guide to living". 

&gt;The cravings for these people don't seem to stop and they seem unable to make a strong personal choice to quit. 

As a recovering alcoholic, I feel that you are grossly misinformed with this line. This isn't true. The urges, for me, and I can *only* speak for me, subsided greatly over time. I don't wake up thinking about drinking anymore. Some days, I don't think about it at all. Most days, actually. And when I do, like right now, I can remove myself emotionally from wanting a drink. I don't want one. It all comes down to choice. I've seen the phrase will-power in this thread, and it leads me to believe that people don't have a clear understanding of the AA Program. It clearly states, and I agree, that willpower will not work for the addict. I had to get to a point where I didn't WANT to drink, just like I no longer want to smoke. It's not me depriving myself of something I want. It's me living a better, cleaner, happier, healthier life. 

&gt;Instead they rely on these people constantly re-enforcing them which simultaneously makes them feel helpless without the program.

I see these people all the time. And, in my mind, they're not doing it "right". I don't feel helpless without the program and I don't feel like I lack control *TODAY*. But if I had a drink, any drink, at any time, I do doubt my ability to stop drinking. I don't want to get into the notion of the disease of addiction. I can only say that once I start drinking, I'm damn near powerless stop. BUT, and this is where I disagree with the program, at least semantically, only I can have the power to not drink. I make that call. No one holds a gun to my head and forces me to drink. It's my choice. It ALL comes down to choice for me. 

I'm a non-Christian and, I'm not gonna lie, some meetings get really god-heavy. But I've come to realize that I don't know everything, and that a Higher Power can simply mean something bigger than me. When I went to rehab, angry and bitter and knowing everything, I made a friend who was a pretty hardcore Christian. She knew I didn't believe in god, and on our last day she made me a card that said "It's important to believe in something bigger than us". And on the inside there was a picture of an elephant and it read "I believe in elephants". That was my jumping-off point. 

The mind of an addict is tricky and twisted. AA, and other programs, give the addict the ability to sort that shit out in a safe, welcoming environment. Did I work all the steps? No. And I don't know if I ever will. But I learned coping mechanisms and insights into myself and the world around me that have allowed me to keep feeding the good wolf, as they say. There are Cognitive Behavioural Therapy sessions and tools that also work. But we can't put everyone in a box. AA works for someone who wants it work. Who embraces that it does come down to choice. I can't say AA is the only thing that's kept me sober. But it's helped a lot. 

Sorry for the wall of text - my first post in this subreddit. I hope I'm doing it right. 

EDIT: I forgot to address OP's question about "solution" to addiction. In my mind, and the mind of many addicts, there is no cure. It can be arrested, but it will always be there. I will be an addict for life. It's not something I believe can be cured. Just treated. 