op_id: 90
op_title: Obama is the best we could do 2008-2013 and complaining about his presidency is pointless, CMV.

First of all, the notion of a "two party system" is a self-fulfilling prophecy.  If 80% of the popular vote in every state had gone to Jill Stein, she would have become president, unless for some grand unprecedented fixing at the Congressional level (which admittedly could probably happen).

Secondly, how do you even know that McCain and Romney would really be as bad as you feared?  Everyone *thought* Obama was going to close Guantanamo Bay.  Everyone *thought* he was going to pull back the executive powers Bush gave himself.  Everyone *thought* he might end the drug war, or at least end the wars overseas.  He's been a lot less progressive than we thought, so why do we assume that McCain and Romney would have been just as conservative as we thought?  They likely would have been much more moderate as well, if they were actually elected.

Thirdly, why does it matter if Romney and McCain would have been worse?  If the school cafeteria serves (A) moldy pizza and (B) cold gruel, does that mean the students who eat the gruel don't get to complain about it?  We hardly had a say in who the party nominees were, and we're having to live with the cards they dealt us, so why shouldn't we complain?  What about people who didn't vote, or voted for a leftist third party?

Also, specifically to Reddit, which you mentioned:  Reddit was *all about Obama* during the election.  Basically every time he came on TV, the front page had 10 posts along the lines of:

* Does anyone else have tears in his eyes?  Obama clinched his re-election with that speech.

* Redditors, how can anyone at this point still support Mitt Romney?

* Regardless of your politics, I think we can all agree the Obama family is the cutest first family of all time

*  Wow.  Just wow.  Obama just destroyed Romney in that debate.

All the while, turning a blind ear to any suggestion that he might not be the Great Progressive Hope of the Universe.  So I'm sure a lot of the moaning on Reddit is blowback from that.