op_id: 108
op_title: Indoor live music gigs are far too loud, and should be quieter. CMV.

I actually agree with you largely. However, a lot of the problem lies on the band itself. As a guitarist, I never would have believed it. But I absolutely did once I shifted into live sound.

1) Drums are fucking loud. Ever hear a drummer tear into a snare? Ever hear one smash his cymbals? In some small club shows, there's almost no need for a mic (except for the thump of a kick, and a little added sound just so nothing gets lost). 

2) Often, especially with rock bands, the guitarists feel the need to have guitar amps WAY overpowered for the space they're playing in. Nobody actually *needs* a 100 watt, 8x12 guitar amp and cabinets. 30 watts and a 10" speaker are more than enough once you have a mic on it. But so many bands crank up their amps to the point where what you're hearing in the audience doesn't have anything to do with the sound guy and everything to do with "but I NEED to have my amp turned up!"

3) Way too much bass is a bad thing, yes, but at the same time please remember, your hearing probably isn't going to be damaged from bass that's too loud. It takes a hell of a lot more low-frequency power to do any remote sort of damage to your hearing than you will ever notice in a lifetime.

4) PRO sound guys (not just the tech at your local night club) aren't dulled from years of loud gigs. We actually carry custom-moulded earplugs designed to reduce SPL without changing the sounds we're hearing (too much). What you have to understand there is that MOST concert-goers only see an occasional show. The loud volumes won't do much damage if it only happens once or twice a year. Touring engineers are exposed to it every single day, often over 100 nights a year, plus soundcheck, rehearsals... I'd absolutely recommend earplugs for any frequent concert goer. But it's not going to affect 75%+ (depending on genre) of the audience to see one show that's a bit too loud. That is, assuming this last factor is not in play...

5) A lot of times, it's a crapshoot as to what a venue has when it comes to sound. I tour with a national act, and I call venues before every single show, often two or three times, to make sure what they have will be good enough. Half the time, what I walk into is nothing like what they said on the phone. Or they have the whole rig set up wrong so it's not actually working at its full potential, or it's far too powerful for its own good. The problem gets even worse if the band doesn't have their own engineer; then it's entirely up to a house tech who is usually inexperienced or has already blown their ears out, or both. A band that carries its own sound system is going to be much better, but they're also going to only play larger venues like arenas, and they'll have time to fine-tune the system to work perfectly for the room.