op_id: 108
op_title: Indoor live music gigs are far too loud, and should be quieter. CMV.

Why do sound technicians ruin so many indoor gigs by turning the whole volume up (especially the bass) so loud that the entire thing becomes distorted and mushy? I love loud music as much as the next person, but the volume level of music at gigs is absurd. I saw Less Than Jake at a very small venue (with a capacity of about 500 people at most) and the sound levels were absurdly high - the whole thing became a disorienting blur of sound. Recently I brought ear plugs when I went to see The Bronx, and the experience was incredible - I could actually hear the songs in a clarity that was comfortable and enjoyable.

It seems to me that seasoned gig goers and sound-techs alike simply don't mind how loud live music is because their ear-drums have been significantly dulled from years of going to loud gigs (effectively removing the need for ear plugs). For those of us with hearing mostly intact, I think gigs are absurdly loud, and sound-techs could reduce the volume by up to 50% in many cases for a much more pleasurable listening experience - still loud, but not so loud that the vocals and rhythm all fuse into what can be, effectively, white noise. In any case the bass needs to come down. When the bass is so loud that you feel your clothes rippling: something is wrong. And yes, I blame the sound-techs and not the band. Being in a band myself, I know that it's very hard to tell what you sound like from the audience when on-stage, even with monitors. 

So I think that gigs should be quieter. This would not only be more enjoyable, but spare many people the hearing loss later in life that live music can cause. I don't think it should be acceptable to have a gig so loud that you hear a ringing in your ears the next day. Change my view.

--------------

P.S. - I go to gigs in London. Maybe this isn't such an issue elsewhere in the world.

P.P.S. - As you may have noticed in the title, I'm only referring to indoor gigs. Outdoor gigs still tend to have sound issues of their own, but their volume is generally at a much more comfortable level due to the sound having room to disperse rather than bouncing off walls in an indoor environment.

P.P.P.S. - I'm referring specifically to 'guitar oriented' live music. The issues in quality of sound are rarely - in my experience - present during a classical orchestra concert, or a jazz/swing band gig.