op_id: 63
op_title: I think the academic elitist views of engineering and other STEM fields in undergrad are justified. Please CMV

**Edit 3: ** Thanks everyone! I have had my view changed mostly due to these arguments: (1) that grading is different between STEM and non-STEM with maybe a bit more leniency outside the hard sciences (2) My school is far from representative of everywhere despite being a large mid-tier institution and (3) Philosophy is hard when you dig deep enough.

I honestly would like someone to change my view in regard to this because I totally believe that the academic elitist view of many engineers (myself included) is justified based on the difficulty of my classes. I haven't heard much of the same from other STEM majors but I think at this point it's a justified view for them as well. 

Basically, my view boils down to this: After having taken a number of upper-level social science courses as required non-tech electives (some economics, psychology, philosophy), it is my opinion that non-STEM majors (excluding skill-based arts/music) are much easier and in general require less work to get the same grade. If I were to decide to major in a non-STEM major I think I could be just as if not more successful than nearly everyone in these majors if I wanted to pursue one of them instead. I do not think the same can be said of a non-STEM major switching into engineering. They may be able to make it through the introductory courses but upper level undergraduate sequences of classes like heat and mass balances --&gt; fluid transport --&gt; heat and mass transfer I think would prove nearly impossible for the majority.

**Thus, I think I am better than my fellow non-STEM majors academically because I believe I can do everything they can do in addition to being able to do something that they are unable to do.** To me, this is a *very negative* view to possess because I devalue the effort other students. If you can change my view, I would very much appreciate it. I will do my best to reply to all reasonable challenges. Please feel free to ask me for any clarification.

Edit: I do not believe that I am more intelligent or that STEM majors are inherently more intelligent that people in other fields. Many of you have made my conscious of the fact that what I believe stems more from the fact that the mid-level university I attend does not seem to have as strict of requirements for non-STEM majors in regard to coursework as it does for STEM majors. I'm certain there are programs out there with excellent non-STEM programs that I would be in way over my head at. I'm going to read this all later when I have a bit more time but I think there a couple people at least that I may want to give deltas to. Thanks everyone.

Edit 2: Ok, sorry for the delay! Reading over everything now after having previewed it on my phone. 