op_id: 1
op_title: Here's what I would change about American gun regulations. CMV

I don't see any reason not to institute mandatory background checks (which red flags from the background check would make you ineligible is another issue) or institute some sort of gun license so long as the fee is not exorbitant and the process for applying for the license is not too difficult or restrictive. 

However, the mental health evaluation you suggest sounds like it would have more room for abuse and would have a tendency to be expensive for the potential gun owner (if you're thinking about an appointment with a certified psychologist).

Paperwork demonstrating transfer of ownership, similar to what we do for cars, also sounds like a good idea.

I don't think a gun owner should be held accountable if one of their guns is stolen and used in a crime any more than a car owner would be held accountable if their car were stolen and then used in a crime. However, as with cars, if you fail to properly transfer ownership of a gun and that gun is used in a crime, there should probably be some consequences for you, though obviously not as severe as for the person who actually perpetrated the crime.

I don't think that owners of "semiautomatic handguns, assault weapons or large magazines" should be subject to "frequent and intrusive recertifications." The license/background check, if we instituted one, should be the same as for a hunting rifle. I could be convinced otherwise if research showed that semiautomatic handguns, etc. were more likely to be involved in a violent crimes, accidents, and/or suicides than hunting rifles and shotguns, but as far as I know, such data does not exist for the US--in large part because the NRA keeps shooting itself in the foot (ha!) by blocking the funding of organizations that want to do this kind of research. I seem to remember a post recently with data from another country (Australia maybe?) showing that deaths caused by assault weapons, etc. were negligible compared to deaths caused by hunting rifles and shotguns. 

The only gun I own is a semi-automatic .22 caliber handgun with a 10-shot magazine that I won in a raffle when I was 16 (I didn't technically own it until I turned 21--my father did). I enjoy shooting targets with my dad, but it's not my favorite thing in the world. I do not believe that my .22 "semi-automatic" weapon makes me a dangerous person. I also do not believe it will help me stand up against a totalitarian government (nor do I fear the US turning into such a government in my lifetime). However, I would like to keep it and would rather not pay several hundred dollars for a license or undergo rigorous psychiatric examination in order to maintain ownership of my property. If reliable research showed that my type of gun was 10 times more likely to be involved in a violent crime than a hunting rifle, then I would reluctantly deal with the new regulations or (more likely) sell my gun to someone who was willing to deal with the regulations. I wouldn't raise much of a fuss because I like reading and Reddit more than shooting. But my father would be very upset since his primary hobbies do involve guns, and it would make me sad to see him go through the type of bureaucracy that you propose, especially without a reasonable demonstration beforehand that the changes would actually result in a reduction of gun violence.

Again, I think the NRA is more to blame for the lack of research we have than anyone else. Stop the NRA from continuing their shenanigans, present me with some cold, hard facts or reasonable projections, and my views could change significantly. 