op_id: 1
op_title: Here's what I would change about American gun regulations. CMV

Interestingly enough, they did exactly this in the U.K. about thirty or so years ago.  It all seems logical and practical and like it should work.   Then they decided that legally, ownership was satisfied if you could own something at all.  So handguns were turned in in huge numbers and you were allowed to keep rifles and shotguns.  Then it was shotguns only.  Then you could only keep them if you had a proven use for them like on a farm or similar.

Thirty years later and the inventers of most of our modern arms and the people who helped us the most in WWII are completely castrated.  Firearms are essentially gone and crime is out of control.

So what was the critical difference?  As was pointed out, it's that your argument pre-supposes that firearms are a priviledge and not a right.  You go into the creation of the list with a view that logically will lead you down this path.  But let's get into each statement/idea.  Because some are good, and some are not.  And this isn't really abot how you set up the argument so much as the individual points.

1 - This sounds great.  But this is alrady what happens with concealed carry permits.  A smarter approach would be to make a nationwide standard and database for CCW permits (it's a hodge-podge of conflicting laws currently and some states accept others, some do not),  Also, make a concerted effort to promote such permit ownership to our youths (say, training leading up to a full permit at adulthood) and as part of self-defense programs and so on.  We need more firearms in the hands of good, trained citizens.  

2 - Absolutely.  We do this in California already to buy any firearm.  But the issue again is every state has its own rules and laws.  There needs to be one database and one standard for all states.  I know I'm a big proponent of States rights, but in many ways, the patchwork of laws creates more headache that it's worth when we're trying to tackle a natiowide problem. 

3 - Unfortunately this is completely unworkable.  Given that you can reload your own ammo for pennies a round, and hundreds of millions of rounds are already in private hands, it's never going to happen. 

4 - Correct.  People will just load their own or drive across town to where it's not taxed.  TO make this work, it would have to be one law for the entire U.S.  But then there's issues with unfair taxes vs states rights and that would simply take decades to deal with in the courts.  Federal regulations are one thing, but adding an "ammo tax" which it would be called, is a political quagmire.

5 - We already do this with CCW permits.  The issue is that we have so many areas where you can't carry it or you can't carry it in across state lines (permit not seen as valid) that too many people leave them at home or in their cars or someplace other than on their person. This also needs to be cleaned up at the Federal level.  A higher level permit as you suggest would possibly let you carry in such paces, like bounty hunters and guards do. Promote this as possibly some sort of deputy corps to help out the overworked police.

6 - They already do this in most states.  The issue is... wait for it... the states that don't.

7 - Unworkable, really.  

8 - This is almost the law in some states already.  I see no issue with it, really.  As a firearm owner, your responsibility to secure it is exactly that.  Fines should seem appropriate.  But then again, if they steal your entire safe, it shouldn't be entirely your fault.

9 - Lastly, this is a must.  A good example of this sort of problem in the past was civil rights.  When you left it up to every city and state to have different laws about voting rights, laws, police enforcement, and so on, it was a social and emotional nightmare.  Only when you made it one law for everyone did we get compliance and the start of a workable system.