op_id: 11
op_title: I think sterilization should be an optional punishment for those found guilty of child negligence/abuse. CMV

I'd argue that the problem with this is that while it makes a certain sort of sense, history shows that it would be applied for bad purposes and that the solution proposed causes more problems than it solves.

This isn't speculation, but rather the only conclusion that can be drawn from the USA's prior history of judicially mandated sterilization.  One of the stated purposes [1] of the program was to prevent harm to children by rendering sterile those people who had demonstrated themselves to be abusive or neglectful to their children.  

In practice what happened was that the program was used to sterilize as many poor white people and black people as the law could manage (even when there was no evidence of abuse or neglect), and that rich white people were simply not forcibly sterilized even when abundant evidence of abuse existed.

I don't at all like the idea of people with a past history of neglect and abuse having kids.  And I'm not speaking abstrctly here, I've got relatives who are abusive and neglectful towards their children (CPS has taken them away, and quite rightly so) and they keep having more children (which CPS can't take away until they manage to gather evidence of abuse and/or neglect, so the newborn has a month or three living with horrible people before CPS can do it's job and get the kids out).  If there were ever candidates for forcible sterilization, I know two personally and agree 100% that in a perfect world they would not be allowed to reproduce.

But, unfortunately, we don't live in a perfect world.  We live in a nation where the courts and police can be statistically shown to police minority groups more heavily than majority groups [2], we live in a world where the courts give longer sentences to minority groups than to majority groups [3].  Moreover, the courts have a statistically demonstrable tendency to simply not charge rich people, and on the rare occasion rich people do get into legal trouble they get lighter sentences than poor people (if for no other reason than that rich people can afford really great lawyers, while poor people get overworked public defenders).  Further, we have historic evidence that the last time it was tried, mandatory sterilization was directed mainly against the poor and black.

Given all that, I would argue that the social problems caused by legally mandating sterilization are going to outweigh the benefits of having fewer children abused or neglected.  I don't like that.  I honestly wish I could support mandatory sterilization because I've seen firsthand what happens when people unfit for parenthood keep having kids.

I will say that I think the better solution is reality based, age appropriate, sex ed in schools, starting at kindergarten and continuing through graduation.  And easily available free contraception.  Because the truth is that most of the people who are having kids they abuse and neglect don't really want kids in the first place.  This also isn't speculation, in nations where sex ed is better, and contraception is more affordable or paid for by the government, the rate of child abuse and neglect is lower than in the USA.  

[1] I say "one" because another of the big stated purposes of the America's foray into court ordered sterilization was eugenics.

[2] Example: the majority of people arrested for possession of marijuana are black, despite the fact that every study done to date has shown that black people use marijuana at a significantly lower rate than white people.  All things being equal, you'd expect the majority of arrests for possession of marijuana to be white (not only are whites the majority, but they use pot more frequently).  Yet black people get arrested for it more than white people.  
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/30/nyregion/30about.html?_r=0

[3] Black people get sentences about 60% longer, on average, than white people who committed the same crime. http://www.allgov.com/news/top-stories/black-americans-given-longer-sentences-than-white-americans-for-same-crimes?news=843984